---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-01-13
episode: 2
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: 
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qIyhvrrMG1s
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/96569
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/ExperienceGoblintown</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/108x76j/comment/j3z3zvt/)

What the... Where are y'all going?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/105hh6b/daily_general_discussion_january_7_2023/j3ecl10/)

*Another night shift,*

*Review and merge pull requests,*

*The open-source gift.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/BigglyBillBrasky has a personal update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/103r9ly/daily_general_discussion_january_5_2023/j329102)
>

The Brasky's Strike Back Part II

It's been over 2 months since my wife lost her job and wanted to share an update. We had both found job opportunities on separate coasts of the US and we're prepared to live apart for a few months so that we could find the income to keep the house and wait for something permanent to open up back home. I had even readied the house and advertised it for rental hoping to find a tenant while we were gone.

At the last minute we both found jobs in town...not only did she get hired with full time employment but she'll be making 20% more than her previous job!!! I had been watching our little one as my main trade is in construction and the real money is made on large industrial projects but requires traveling away from home. I had found a part time gig that worked well with our schedules but had to quit as I was going back on the road to work. I got a call right before leaving and a side hustle that I had tried to get started back in August has now just opened up...and I'll be making more than double my previous income while still playing daddy day-care!!!

The last few months have definitely been a trial and has put a lot of stress on our marriage but we came out as better spouses and better positioned than before!! We had enough savings in case of emergencies and I was prepared to start selling my sweet sweet precious ETH if things got worse. We were able to not burn through everything and our ETH stack is still intact earning rewards!! Glad I can share this my ETH fam and anyone else going through the fire. Amazed to have a spouse who can get aggressive and when the bear bites we bite back.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/magnushansson shares a new paper on crypto network security</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/103r9ly/daily_general_discussion_january_5_2023/j31az1r/)

Economist Eric Budish [presents a new paper (video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mYFRQGwe7rI&ab_channel=EconomicsDepartment%2COxfordUniversity) showing skepticism regarding the cost of securing the Bitcoin network. The main criticism boils down to the fact that there is no trust in the system (trustless), in the sense that there is no "memory" to build up trust. A miner is only trusted by spending computing resources right now, but does not get rewarded for building up a good reputation. He argues that although this is a perfectly fine model for security, it get's very expensive. In the concluding remarks, Budish briefly discusses PoS and says that it could potentially be used in a better way.

I think his arguments for the cost of securing the Bitcoin network is interesting and probably valid (depending on what the attack looks like). People in crypto should not be arrogant and dismiss criticism, but instead try to understand all perspectives to be able to build better systems. I'm not sure how trust in a decentralized system would look, or even if it's a good idea (Any Layer0 player comments?). Also, PoS certainly have clear advantages: E.g., the cost of an attack is significantly larger, as the attacker risks losing the capital (not the case with mining). But if the capital required to secure the network needs to be way higher than the transactional value of the network, that could be an obstacle for growth. Are there any attempts to clearly work out the economics for PoS?

Edit:

Thanks for the comments and suggestions to listen to Justin Drake on this, will take a look!

I also found this quite intense twitter discussion on the subject: <https://twitter.com/alexoimas/status/1525505965029830656>

And this blog post: <https://hugonguyen.medium.com/a-review-of-budishs-51-attack-theories-what-is-the-fair-price-of-an-old-asic-59a7dcf9ff94> which argues that the scenarios in Budish article are unrealistic. The author also argues PoW > PoS.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/diego-d explains why they don't really see the point in Bitcoin anymore</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/104mg1j/daily_general_discussion_january_6_2023/j39muiw/)

For the first time in my 6 years of crypto I am starting to seriously ponder: I do not actually get the 'point' of bitcoin. It's unprofitable to mine it. It pays no yield if you already have it. It doesn't protect you from inflation. It needs a steady supply of greater fools during its cycle because its security costs scale with price (see: boom-bust curve). Its vocal supporters are cringe. I've always agreed that bitcoin is pristine collateral while ETH has a place as a programmable crypto asset but things have changed. I'm at the point where the flippening is not a meme anymore - it is the guaranteed outcome of the supply/demand dynamics that we are witnessing now - just needs more time to play out. ETH is now the pristine collateral imo, and I don't see why in the future ETH can't have flipped Bitcoin multiple times.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/waqwaqattack shares their latest interview on RocketFuel with Jasper aka u/sikhsoldiers</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/104mg1j/daily_general_discussion_january_6_2023/j373fs4/)

I recorded a new Launch Pad episode with [/u/sikhsoldiers](https://reddit.com/u/sikhsoldiers). Jasper is an extremely popular member of the Rocket Pool community.

In the episode, we talk about how his early crypto journey had him spending time here in ethfinance, his path to the Rocket Pool community, and how he became Rocket Pool’s resident DeFi expect. At the end of the video, we do a run through of his paper “Why Paradigm Was Wrong: How rETH Will Flip stETH”.

You can watch it here: <https://youtu.be/DwUQMZA9Jus>

For those of you who don’t know, Launch Pad is an interview series within Rocket Fuel - a daily news show summarising everything happening in the Rocket Pool community.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ecosystem: u/austonst enlightens us to the conflict of interest for entities running MEV block builder and MEV relays</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/105hh6b/daily_general_discussion_january_7_2023/j3cqss0/)

MEV-Boost relay transaction censorship has gotten a good amount of attention since the Merge, and for good reason. Fortunately, word has gotten around and the trend is improving.

So I think it's time to emphasize another problem in the relay space: relays who also run builders. Relay-builders as opposed to independent relays? I need a better term for this. This is informed by my time working on the [Aestus relay](https://aestus.live/), and while I believe our relay can help with this problem, I hope you can trust that my goal here is not marketing. We don't make any money off this relay anyway.

In a world without relays, proposers and builders would have to trust each other directly: depending on the implementation one would always be able to steal MEV from the other. Relays sit in the middle and take on all that trust. As long as the relay is trusted, proposers and builders each enter a trustless relationship with the other.

However, a malicious relay, working with one side or the other, can execute all the attacks they were supposed to prevent. A relay working with a builder can steal MEV from a proposer or the other builders, and likewise, a relay working with a proposer can steal MEV from a builder.

Now let's bring relay-builders into this. An entity that is running both a relay and a builder has a clear conflict of interest. Compromising the relay's neutrality by working together with their builder could immensely improve profitability. Let's list out some potential attacks that relay-builders could carry out. These are in roughly increasing order of subtlety and with names I'm making up on the spot, with "you" being the relay-builder:

1. **Single-Block Copying:** Some third party builder has submitted a block to the relay that is more valuable than the block your builder made. Simply copy all the transactions from the third-party builder's block, but make it so you keep any value that is not sent to the proposer. Send a bid to the proposer with your block instead of the other builder's. A competent builder should be able to detect this and trash your reputation.

1. **Ignoring Other Builders:** A third-party builder submitted a block more valuable than your builder's block. You should pass on the third-party bid to the proposer. Instead, pretend you didn't see it. Submit your builder's bid instead. Done naively like this, the third-party builder should be able to catch it.

1. **Multi-Block Copying:** Multiple builders have submitted blocks with valuable MEV. Build your block from the most valuable transactions from each of them. Make sure your bid to the proposer will legitimately win the auction, but keep the rest of the MEV for yourself. I don't know if builders would detect this, might take some analysis and time.

1. **Obfuscated MEV Copying:** Same as with the first two copying attacks, but with intent to be subtle about it. For example, if a third-party builder/searcher has a truly novel source of MEV extraction that only they know how to do, they'd recognize if it were stolen, so only copy MEV that can be identified as a recognizable strategy and is unlikely to come from a private mempool. Implement some fuzzing, make your copied MEV transactions slightly different so as to give plausible deniability that maybe your builder found that MEV on their own. Might be hard to detect.

1. **Auction Manipulation:** Anyone can check the best current bid through the relay API, which is a problem in itself, but the relay has particularly low-latency access to this info. In case a third-party builder only very slightly outbids your builder, quickly create a new block with a winning bid and propose that instead. The relay has some wiggle room with timing to make sure your builder can always outbid. Catching this would require long-term analysis and may be covered by plausible deniability or obfuscation.

1. **Block Timing Manipulation:** A third-party builder submitted a block more valuable than the one made by your builder. Give your block priority in the relay's block validation system, or better yet, don't waste time validating it at all (you made it, you trust it). Make your competitor's block low-priority for validation or otherwise stall it so it's less likely to be ready when the proposer asks for the best bid. Hard to detect, covered by plausible deniability, and current data APIs don't expose enough timing information to help with detection or can be manipulated. This could be an actual concern.

1. **Builder Colocation:** Most builders will make \~1 submission per second, with value increasing over time as more bundles and tx's arrive. Builders that are geographically closer to the relay, with lower latency, will tend to have slightly higher-value blocks because of it. If a relay and builder are running in the same data center, under the same account/project, on a high-speed private LAN, that will give them a competitive edge. This maybe doesn't quite qualify as an attack, but a neutrality concern at least.

I want to be clear that **I have no reason to believe existing relay-builders are malicious and carrying out these attacks**. But why accept the possibility that they may some day occur? Why connect to relays that require extra trust assumptions when there are alternatives?

Right now, Ultrasound and Agnostic are the only relays not operating their own builders. Aestus is temporarily running a builder, but it doesn't extract MEV, doesn't take any profit, and only operates until we get a reliable set of third-party builders connected (otherwise we might not have any blocks for connected proposers). I would encourage everyone to direct their validators and builders to those relays and to ask existing relay-builders to consider only running one or the other. I'm grateful to the early relay-builders for getting us off the ground, but now we can start to hold the space to a higher standard.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ecosystem: u/superphiz has some predictions for the Shanghai upgrade</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/105hh6b/daily_general_discussion_january_7_2023/j3c2ahu/)

I'm going to make some guesses for what might happen on the beacon chain regarding withdrawals. I want to qualify these as "guesses", because reality rarely unfolds as we expect and it would overestimate my foresight to call them predictions. Also, since I'm not making predictions, I acknowledge that it's difficult to quantify the results of many of these guesses.

- Shanghai is likely to happen some time around Tuesday, March 28, 2023. This isn't based on any factual information and I'm VERY behind on core dev calls, but I do think that developers want to push this in March, and Tuesdays are a good day to do these. Guess confidence: 4%.
- Network usage will skyrocket immediately after the merge as people race to take advantage of whatever strategy they've developed to respond to withdrawals. Some folks will be racing to claim stolen beacon chain funds, while others will be racing to save their funds from an attacker. Other people will have novel strategies that I can't conceive. This will lead to high execution rewards for validators who propose those blocks. Guess confidence: 20%.
- MEV block rewards will be very high for several hours based on the previous point. Guess confidence: 15%
- There will be few "real" validator exits, but there will be validator shuffling that will appear as exits and spook some people. For example, providers who have merged or folded will want to re-secure their keys under new management and will exit to re-stake under improved security, but this won't be clear to observers who will only perceive it as "churn". Guess confidence: 30%.
- The price is likely to fluctuate 2% either way, but will quickly reach homeostasis because people are already committed to their positions. There will be sellers who have been eager to claim gains after having locked coins, and buyers who are comforted by the knowledge that withdrawals are real and sustainable. Guess confidence: 0%
- Over the next year, individual deposits to the beacon chain will climb steadily as observers who couldn't commit to an unknown timeline now accept that the beacon chain is stable. I'm expecting 20 million staked Ether aka 625,000 validators by the end of 2023. Guess confidence: 5%
- Large institutions will finally be comfortable depositing their treasuries into the beacon chain and taking staking rewards. This will occur over a 1-3 year period and result in significant locked coins. It remains to be seen whether they'll take a profit maximalist or chain maximalist approach to staking, but based on our educational efforts it's realistic to assume that many of these institutions will recognize the value of decentralization, trustlessness, and chain health when staking. Guess confidence: 10%
- We'll see a new wave of LSD products, with products who support chain health leading the charge, and products who who maximize greed seeing less usage. In simple terms: institutions know that parasitic engagement with the beacon chain will reduce the long term viability of their investment. Guess confidence: 20%
- Public goods like schools/universities, and local governments will slowly begin dipping their toes into staking, especially in cooperatives arranged around DVT solutions that help them dilute the risk of running validators. We ought to promote these cooperatives rather than encouraging centralized approaches. Guess confidence: 2%
- We'll discover that some people and entities have lost staking keys. In the true fashion of cryptocurrency, I expect these keys to miraculously turn up in someone's private possession after many years. Guess confidence: 5%

**BONUS**: What our community can do to support this transition:

- Educate everyone you can about the transition to Proof of Stake. Many people are still unaware that this has happened.
- Talk to people about the relationship between "good staking" on a healthy network and the price. People who think they're staking selfishly will harm themselves by reducing decentralization. Staking in decentralized ways will have a positive impact on the price.
- Help people recognize that withdrawals are a fruition of the promise by core developers to prioritize withdrawals after the merge. They deserve plenty of credit for being consistent and predictable.
- Don't let people get complacent. So many people promised to move to solo home staking, or even just a better staking solution when withdrawals were enabled, but there's a natural tendency to get lazy and complacent when the opportunity is real - don't let people be lazy!
- Keep learning and building. The price is a lagging indicator of what the developers and community bring to Ethereum. You don't improve the quality of your asset by simply watching the price.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/Maleficent_Plankton reminds us about a recent scam that has been going around</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/106bh8s/daily_general_discussion_january_8_2023/j3h7bg5)

There was a fairly-notable phishing post on r/CC yesterday where the user mistakenly sent tokens to an address that looked very similar to his actual address (same starting and ending characters). He originally thought he had clipboard malware that changed his address, but it turned out he actually copied to the wrong address.

If you look at his PolygonScan history days before the mistakenly transaction, you can see that he was targeted multiple times.

All these similar-looking address had interacted with his account in the past 2 weeks:

- 0xDD1B7Ce698d0d58Cd521A9c186e6a95CF043614C (his)
- 0xDd12B7E4B8e74745986DD80DDAd191D2a4d7a14C
- 0xdD1f22080CF69E1B1A92D33E8f3d6a766447614c
- 0xdd1b4452Ef12D5838fBed7649c9B77C90Cc4614C
- 0xDD1b08cbc37C8cBBEfbA339D969439b45D06614C
- 0xdD1fAF3643A67b7e9d0629F2a9230B806AF2614c

**This is known as [address poisoning](https://mirror.xyz/x-explore.eth/cL3d_CyNujXq8XY7ueP4omNXx_IY1EG5Dz0FD0vJ90M)**. Attackers send low-value token transactions and receive 0-value token transactions to-and-from your addresses, hoping that you accidentally pick their address in future transactions.

Blockchain explorers and and some wallets will show these transactions. The recommended way to avoid getting tricked is to use an address book of whitelisted addresses. Most wallets and exchanges have an address book feature.

**I've posted a comprehensive list of crypto scams here** along with best practices to avoid getting scammed: <https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/106lsai/comprehensive_list_of_common_crypto_scams_and/>

If you're active in DeFi, you'll probably come across many scams and random phishing airdrops on your accounts. Especially true on low-fee networks like Polygon PoS and BSC.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/DoubtStarsAreFire invites everyone to join the Hodlercon discord ahead of planning for the 2024 meet up</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1076f4p/daily_general_discussion_january_9_2023/j3ks6a2/)

We had so much fun in Hawaii we’re going to do it again… for those of you that don’t know HodlerCon 2024 is currently in the planning stages. Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/9K634swKJ4) to get involved

Luau Dao is submitting a presentation about our Decentralized Layer Zero Vacation at ETH Denver! 🤞Fingers crossed we get accepted. That being said, we had to make a pitch video for the talk. I couldn’t keep it to myself because I wanted to share it with you fam! I hope you enjoy!

<https://youtu.be/M2bOnABFneo>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/MinimalGravitas discusses goats and staking?!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10827ir/daily_general_discussion_january_10_2023/j3qgc9r/)

GM EthFam,

So I've been thinking about whether LSDs represent almost a multipolar trap.

A multipolar trap is a situation where participants are incentivized to act in a way detrimental the good of the group, and to themselves in the long run. The most obvious example is the tradgedy of the commons. We each share a piece of land, it can support each of us grazing 10 goats. If I graze 11 goats the quality of the land might deteriorate, but so slowly it won't matter, whereas I get 10% more goat, it's an obvious choice. Unfortunately you all make the same obvious choice and so the field is overgrazed and after a few years becomes barren and most of everyone's goats starve. If you decide to be the better person and keep to the original limit of 10 goats, then all you're doing is disadvantaging yourself relative to the rest of us 11 goat havers. We can all afford more turnips than you due to goat inflation and so you end up out competed.

Getting back to ether staking... by using a centralized service rather than solo staking you get access to an LSD. This gives you advantages in terms of opportunity access, you can swap into something else if you want to or create leveraged positions or whatever.

Like with the shared field, the disadvantage is on a community level. The decentralization and 'legitimacy' of Ethereum the network, and by extention, ether the asset is compromized, meaning it is less likely to be as highly valued in the future. Sure, you could take the high ground and not use a centralized service, but then are you disadvantaging yourself with lost opportunity cost. And if you do, and most people chose a centralized service then you still lose out from the loss of perceived legitimacy anyway...

...

Except that entire scenario is not analogous to Ethereum staking today due to another option, that hopefully most of you have been hearing repeat in your heads the entire time you've been reading. Rocketpool solves the lose-lose coordination failure, by providing an option that gives people the ability to access an LSD without compromising the decentralization of the whole. With it the multipolar trap is easily disarmed, the field doesn't need to be depleated for individuals to gain the advantages.

RocketPool is the G.O.A.T.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/-lightfoot highlights the significance which staking withdrawals has on decentralisation and u/diego-d follows up with their zero to hero staking journey</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/108x76j/comment/j3vgs6i/)

Don’t underestimate the decentralizing impact Shanghai will have. Lots of people fully aligned with Ethereum’s defining values like me have ETH staked with cexs where we would rather not, for various reasons, who will be empowered by withdrawals to revisit their position and consider going solo.

I’ve run validators on testnet but don’t have the skills/confidence to do it with real money right now, but Shanghai marks a big psychological target for me to remedy that and it’s very easy to be inspired by people in this sub, describing how rocketpool, dappnode etc. are very easy to do. Plus ethstaker and all the guides. It’s taking on a huge financial responsibility but it’s about integrity and aligning one’s actions with one’s values and you see that across the Ethereum community and it is inspiring.

It might take 6 months but I’m really looking forward to watching the transition of ETH from centralized stakers to clean green homegrown (fanless, I recently learned here, so no noise and no fiddly dust hoovering!) validators.

I named my testnet validator raspberry pi ‘Goldfish’ because I often couldn’t leave it alone more than a day without it dying. Even put a little goldfish sticker on it. I’m looking forward to carrying that bs over onto a nuc; name suggestions welcome.

<https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/108x76j/comment/j3vp7io/>

This brings back memories. I was so systems illiterate that it took me about a week to set up my rig before even syncing the block chains. Almost every step in the guides I had to Google something or pester the kind people in the ethstaker discord. I’d never used Linux before. Had to actually Google where to find the command prompt in Ubuntu as if ‘Terminal’ wasn’t obvious enough. Didn’t know what port forwarding was. Many such examples. Once I finally felt like I knew what I was doing, I wiped the entire system and started again from scratch. Then did that a couple more times. Each time getting quicker and more confident. I think by the 3rd try I had got it down to 30 minutes before syncing the blockchains. I ended up validating on testnet for only 1 day, then swapped over to mainnet. I specifically remember phiz telling me to practice on testnet longer but beacon chain launch was imminent. I hesitated due to no withdrawal mechanism but decided there was no way I was missing genesis lol. It’s been more than 2 years since then, my rig diligently staking 24/7 without any major problems. In a weird way it’s been one of the only constants in my life, as life’s events pass by.

Tldr; I agree Shanghai will likely increase decentralisation. if I can do it, literally anyone can, and will. A focus after Shanghai should be towards making the process easier to ensure it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Honorable Mention: Ethereum Foundation Researchers AMA</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/107cqi8/ama_we_are_ef_research_pt_9_11_january_2023/)

</details>
