---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-01-06
episode: 1
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: 
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DgalmQ3ulco
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/95687
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/nixorokish</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1014ypw/daily_general_discussion_january_2_2023/j2ln9qj/)

mister eth, please report to the principal's office
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ecosystem: u/ethmaxitard shares zkSYNCS devotion to ethereums vision</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/zxxihz/daily_general_discussion_december_29_2022/j230i3l/)

[‘Make sure Ethereum wins’ — Steve Newcomb reveals zkSync’s prime directive](https://cointelegraph.com/magazine/make-sure-ethereum-wins-steve-newcomb-reveals-zksyncs-prime-directive/)

> For him, the end game of Ethereum is security so perfect that no quantum computer can break it and decentralization so good that no nation-state can stop it — in other words, a “private internet computer that cannot be hacked by any computer or stopped by any nation-state.”
> 
> “I want people to understand that this is more important than technology; this is possibly as important as what comes after capitalism and democracy,” he says.

Probably stuff all the gigabrains in ethfinance already know but cool to see zkSync's devotion to the Ethereum vision.
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/RobertLobLaw2 discusses their journey from ETH holder to ETH staker</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/zyspvz/daily_general_discussion_december_30_2022/j27v88q/)

I have a few Rocketpool validators that are currently pending. They should be active in 3 hours. After I write this comment, I'm going to bed. I'm not very active in this sub but I lurk like a mf. I'm feeling inspired to talk about my journey from an ETH Holder to an ETH Staker.

1. First I just want to say that it hasn't been much of a journey. Staking your ETH is not hard. I ran a 8 GPU mining rig for a couple years and the process to set up a validator through Rocketpool is a fraction of the difficulty of setting up a mining rig. Shoutout to the Rocketpool team for the easy to follow documentation.
1. Secondly, along the way, I realized that Rocketpool utilizes almost every novel financial tool that has gained traction in the world of Crypto. Through the process of setting up a Rocketpool node and validators I have interacted with Automatic Market Makers, Liquidity Pools, Flash Loans, and a DAO. I have used all of these novel financial tools to create a stream of passive income. The only thing missing was an NFT. Although I wouldn't really say that I was really missing it Bob.
1. I'll sleep well tonight knowing that when I wake up tomorrow I'll be a wealthier person.

That last statement will remain true until either Ethereum fails or I fail to uphold my responsibilities as a ETH Staker.
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ecosystem: u/superphiz brief us on ethereum's big goals for 2023</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/zzn04h/daily_general_discussion_december_31_2022/j2fl3c4/)

ICYMI: The target milestone for 2023 is to ship EIP-4844, aka Proto-Danksharding. If you want to make a difference in the Ethereum ecosystem and you're looking for a way to get involved, learn about EIP-4844 and educate others. While education feels low-value to many people, bringing more eyes to a project like this brings new developers and more momentum. Don't underestimate your own ability to make a difference on the network. I know that withdrawals in 2023 will get a lot of attention, and we know it's in the pipeline, but 4844 is the giant target.
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/-DarkKnight’new years resolution is to learn about ethereum and focus less on price</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/100d6c2/daily_general_discussion_january_1_2023/j2hswf0/)

My new year's resolution is to focus more on learning ethereum rather than focusing on price.

Lessons learnt in 2022:

1. I lost way too much Eth trying to trade during this bearmarket. Lesson: avoid short term trading. Not worth the time and mental stress.
1. I tried being a degen in 2022 by buying DOGE, trending NFTs, small cap coins and lost more money. Lesson: Be a reasonable investor and accumulate ETH and other high quality assets at undervalued prices.
1. My focus on prices has limited my learning. Lesson: Bear markets are for building and learning.

Goals:

1. Learn about Ethereum and its core upgrades
1. Learn programming - initially python +/- other web2 languages, which should all hopefully give me a good foundation for solidity / ethereum development

Accumulate more ETH
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Analysis: u/RooftopPortaPotty continues their weekly investigation ofnew crypto CHROME extensions</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/100d6c2/daily_general_discussion_january_1_2023/j2jdzfl/)

This is the second installment of my series of posts regarding the privacy of various Chrome browser crypto wallet extensions.

First entry can be found here, where we analyzed Rabby.

My approach:

This analysis has shown that my previous approach of broadly categorizing findings under 'the ok, the bad, the ugly, and the weird' is insufficient, subjective, and does not properly represent what I wish to convey.

Using Kali Linux, I downloaded Google Chrome directly from google.com/chrome.

Analysis of encrypted traffic was completed using BurpSuite + the provided root cert, installed in chrome's local cert repo. Chrome is then launched with a proxy set to Burp's listening port.

I will not be doing any sort of transactions whatsoever. I will, however, connect the wallet to a dapp.

On this New Years Day we will be taking a look at Tally Ho!

The Tally Ho extension was downloaded from <https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/tally-ho/eajafomhmkipbjmfmhebemolkcicgfmd>

I must start off by giving Tally Ho credit for something that Rabby did not implement. As I went through using the wallet to create a new address, I paid no attention to the seed phrase.

<https://imgur.com/bqsyl6E>

I was hit with a quiz that ensures that the user knows their seed phrase. I reinstalled Tally Ho, created a new address, and passed the quiz this time.

An excellent general security practice that every wallet should implement.

<https://imgur.com/zbJmXcs>

Upon installation, the first request Tally Ho generates is to api.coingecko.com in search of current token prices. Notice crab season in full effect.

<https://imgur.com/seC9btg>

Here we see a request for Arbitrum's token list.

This is a 'web3' wallet, and as such we see many requests destined for chains and defi services that us ethfinanciers wont (admit to, at least) be using much.

An example of such a request, one which is quite demonstrative of the rest, looks like <https://imgur.com/AEjA8m1>

I dont have a problem with this activity, but it would be great to have a more Ethereum-centric version of this wallet.

<https://imgur.com/VTx7WAJ>

api.blocknative.com is used to fetch Ethereum gas fees and block info.

<https://imgur.com/T3nHyI2>

Tally Ho reaches out to Compound Finance's Github repo 'token-list' for a list of, you guessed it, tokens.

For a benign example of why this is not such a great practice, check out this request to Trader Joe's 'token-list' repo.

<https://imgur.com/LXpv2j4>

The response is a 404. Not a huge problem, just a bit sloppy seeming. Could be bad news if an attacker is able to gain access to that repo, which is likely much less heavily protected than Trader Joe's other assets.

Here is where things get a bit more subjective.

<https://imgur.com/GAT5Bp8>

We see Ankr's API being used to get the ETH balance of my new Ethereum address, notice the value '0x0' in the response.

And for the Alchemy haters, Ive got some bad news:

<https://imgur.com/bsztI6Q>

Alchemy's API is used to fetch my address' balances of various tokens, which are specified by contract address in the POST request body.

You may notice requests to mainnet.infura.io in the above image. No need to worry, these requests were generated strictly by connecting to staking.synthetix.io.

One thing that left me a bit puzzled is this request to resolve.unstoppabledomains.com

<https://imgur.com/0C3NyGb>

My wallet address is sent as a GET parameter. Along with an 'Authorization:' HTTP header.

I have not had much time to look into this service, and would love to know more if anyone has any insight.

Refreshingly, no requests to telemetry services or advertisers were found.

I call upon the great /u/REALJohnBMacLemore. Would you please be willing to do the dirty deed, ser?

Happy New Year, yall!
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Analysis: u/LogrisTheBard discusses the efficiency of yearn finances payroll system</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1014ypw/daily_general_discussion_january_2_2023/j2osvx6/)

I continue to be amazed by the transparency of Defi sometimes. Just [look](https://llamapay.io/streams?chainId=1&address=ychad.eth) at the Yearn.finance employee expenses here. Continuously streamed, withdrawn whenever the payee wants. Compare this to your traditional corporate payroll system.

1. Why should I need a payroll advance service to draw money I'm already due for hours worked? An entire predatory industry should mostly not exist or at least should be replaced by something like Alchemix. I see no reason something like this couldn't be integrated into a time card system in an automated way for hourly employees too.
1. You know that whole labor board that people go to when their employer did something fucky with their wages? This makes it obvious instantly when the employer is behind on paying wages. The labor board could just monitor registered company addresses and automatically begin a process if a registered account is behind before the employees even notice to report something.
1. Why do you need a W2 when you have something like this? This is an IRS dream come true. Imagine all the management software like AGP you could save businesses.

But you know... people say crypto has no value.
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/Maswasnos shares a sus email from juno</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/101zwim/daily_general_discussion_january_3_2023/j2tsika/)

Interesting message from Juno Finance:

> Dear User,
> 
> This is an important announcement.
> 
> Juno doesn't custody crypto assets and relies on crypto partners for providing these services. Due to uncertainty with our crypto partner who is responsible for crypto operations for Juno, we strongly recommend withdrawing your crypto assets into a self-custody wallet. You can also choose to sell these assets for cash and keep them secured in your Juno checking account which is FDIC insured up to $250,000 via Evolve Bank and Trust.
> 
> There are daily platform limits for sells and withdrawals and we’re working with our partner to increase them for a smoother transition. Due to current market uncertainty we have also disabled crypto buys on the platform and auto-converted some of the stablecoins (USDC, USDT and mUSDC) to USD. Any fees incurred will be reimbursed. We apologise for the inconvenience and will keep you posted.
> 
> All Banking and Card related services continue to operate as usual. We will also transition to a new crypto partner in the coming weeks.

Emphasis mine.

Maybe they're shifting around their crypto backend and they aren't sure how assets held by the crypto provider will be handled during the transition. It's cool that they advocate for self custody.
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/REALJohnBMacLemore recommends all juno and wyreusers withdraw funds</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/101zwim/daily_general_discussion_january_3_2023/j2u3jlg/)

Heyyo! My Pride! I wanted to bring more attention to [this post by Maswasnos](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/101zwim/_/j2tsika) further down in the daily.

If you have crypto assets stored with Juno or Wyre, withdrawal them now!
The email in that post feels funny to me. The words seem exceptionally well chosen to provide the most warning with the least possible legal consequences. I suggest you heed their warning. If you custody with someone else, be sure they are not using Wyre to custody their assets. IMO, that is who Juno is attempting to warn you about.

Again, nothing confirmed, just my feeling.
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/Dreth is listing all the different kinds of scams and collecting examples</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/102vnu4/daily_general_discussion_january_4_2023/j2weoyq/)

Heya fam, I need some help collecting more scam examples that are different to those I already have. If anyone has examples, I'd appreciate a DM with it, a reply to this post with an imgur link or something or a discord DM at dreth#1988 if you have any good examples I haven't listed.

As of right now I have:

- Airdrop scams
- Fake exchange scams
- Excel malware
- Notification that you 'won a prize'
- An offer to use a referral code for 'mutual benefit'
- Someone offering to 10x your investment in 48 hours
- Notification of being whitelisted to participate on a presale
- Invitation to pump and dump discord groups
- Someone asking for help to exchange a token for another in a p2p exchange (despite the token being listen on uniswap with plenty of liquidity)
- A story of a scam crypto startup
- A fake USDC contract migration with instructions to basically get scammed signing some transactions
- The recent fake Chainlink scammer on reddit that DMd some users
- The NVO ICO scam and other ICO scams
- Fake token staking site scams
- Fake token listings on uniswap
- Twitter bots tagging me on fake airdrop claim sites
- Several email scams telling me money has been moved out of my wallet, that I've been hacked and all sorts of shit.

There's one notorious scam I know I'm missing and that's fake support people, so I'd appreciate at least one example of that, not more than one is needed.

If there's any meaningfully different or interesting scams you have examples of, please send them my way. I'd also apprecaite malware or anything that could be misleading to users or put them at risk. Do not post malicious links as a reply to this comment, just DM them to me.

I'm on the EVMavericks discord and moderate the StakeWise discord, verify my username well if you want to DM me on discord, don't get scammed.

A million thanks to everyone that have helped me out !
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/404bachee is making the most of the build market</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/102vnu4/daily_general_discussion_january_4_2023/j2w5lte/)

have a great day my fellow "eth maxis".

bear markets are great for buidlers.

while looking for web3/blockchain related jobs, I began working on my own blockchain project :
I'm building (from scratch front-end/back-end, the whole 9 yards) an LSD niche focused DeX liquidity aggregator.

way down the road, I'm thinking about adding features like evolving the project into a platform that will make it easier for users to participate into liquidity pools, create and run rocketpool minipool, create finance-focused NFTs using oracles and open order books.

even if the project is a total failure and absolutely no one uses it, I'm still happy to be full hand on on it building everything from UI/frontend to the backend and integration APIs of Uniswap/0x and interacting with Rocketpool/uniswap and building smart contracts.

as a software engineer, it's an experience that is like a breeze of fresh air to do a fun side passion project that may or may not transform into a "real" product.

worst case scenario, no one uses it but it gives me legitemacy when talking about my experience in the web3 with recruiters.

best case scenario, users love it and it becomes my full time job.

"average" scenario, it has some kind of traction, and keep being a fun passion project I will maintain while working full time job somewhere else.

anyway, thank you for reading my post, have a great day and may the force be with you
</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Honorable Shoutout</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1014ypw/daily_general_discussion_january_2_2023/j2pt4o8/)

Well...I think some records will never be broken.. According to my notes [/u/Maleficent_Plankton](https://reddit.com//u/Maleficent_Plankton) has the best P/E ratio in the sub.

They have made 111 comments (according to Moderator ToolBox) in Ethfinance and achieved Doot status 16 freakin' times. That's crazy high.

Just wanted to give a shoutout on that amazing achievement.
</details>
