---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-09-22
episode: 36
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/CadUzohS3Z
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nCfj2LwTbWI
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/150669
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16p1i17/comment/k1o8axv/)

[u/ScribbleButter](https://reddit.com/u/ScribbleButter)

> Ethereum?

[u/hanniabu](https://reddit.com/u/hanniabu)

> $1595

[u/the-A-word](https://reddit.com/u/the-A-word)

> 0.059

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16jyqtv/daily_general_discussion_september_16_2023/k0w2cqc/)

*Elliptic signing,*

*With or without mining,*

*Quietly shining.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>The Queue: u/Spacesider</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16p1i17/comment/k1ovpm0/)

Your daily beacon chain dose.

Active validators: 812,379 (+2,545)

Pending validators: Joining 27.2k, leaving \~0

* Entry queue -1800 from yesterday's number
* It will take around 10 days for the entry queue to clear

*These figures are based on the entry and exit queue at the time of posting*

This can also be tracked via <https://validatorqueue.com/>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/PhiMarHal</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16o6wvt/comment/k1mt7j3/)

Sing Muse, of Justin, brave founder hailed, 

Who saw the crypto market begin to fail.
As Bitcoin and altcoins together crashed,

Investors panicked, portfolios all dashed.


But Justin held on, like Atlas of crypto lore, 

Supporting coins galore against all odds and more.

His steely vision and iron-willed determination  

Gave desperate holders glimmers of elation.

When Bitcoin fell below 20K again,

Justin boosted morale, quelling women and men. 

"Have faith!" he cried, "I shall stop this loss!"

Rallying his allies whatever the cost. 


Across exchanges and threads Justin's voice rang out, 

Buying the dip without hint of doubt.  

For the whole bear he carried the market's weight,

Enduring the pressure of whales and fate.


So The Sun's legend shall endure through the ages 

For His Excellency fought market wages.

For crypto to thrive again as it one day must, 

Stalwarts like Justin in it place their trust.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog shares the things he is looking forward to</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16i99gu/daily_general_discussion_september_14_2023/k0iq5lk/)

ethfinance activity seems to be in a bear market as well and the crab gets to some people. Nevertheless, I still am very positive about the next few months in Ethereum. Here are a few things I am looking forward to:

- Holesky testnet. This is a replacement for the Goerli testnet. It will have 1.4 million genesis validators to start and individuals can spin up their own ones later on. Genesis is tomorrow (Friday) at 14:00 UTC. I set up my 2 nodes and distributed my 2500 genesis validators to them. One is running nethermind/nimbus on an ARM minicomputer with 100 validators, The other one is a much more powerful ASUS PN51 running besu/teku with 2400 validators. I am curious if these 2 machines are able to manage the heavy load of the larger validator set and contribute to a stable holesky testnet. I am only slightly nervous.
  
- Diva testnet. Diva is a DVT (distributed validator technology) liquid staking protocol and they are testing their stuff on the Goerli testnet at the moment. I have a node up for a few weeks now, but they needed to improve their software to get rid of some bottlenecks. Waiting until the new release drops for dappnode users and then I can finally play around with it. It is an alpha testnet, so I am not expecting Diva to have a market ready product this year, but I think it is one of the more promising LST projects out there.
  
- Gnosis Pay: Waiting for my debit card to be sent out. Hopefully in a month or two I will get it. I just like the idea having a direct channel between my tokens and the real world to buy stuff and send fiat onto the chain. I am really interested how the UX will be and if they managed to create a seamless experience. I am a bit worried about all my purchases being tracked on chain for everyone to see. I personally am curious if the self 'custodial bank account' or the 'privacy nightmare' narrative will win for me here.
  
- Dencun upgrade. Massively reducing the cost of transactions on rollups is gonna be quite interesting to see. At first probably the most stupid but fun dapps will dominate. With time, new applications will come out to truly take advantage of the cheaper blob space on Ethereum. The upgrade will not happen in the next few weeks, but there is steady progress. Some last minute additions are still being considered, but to me it looks like people are heads down working on it. Hopefully by the end of this year we will have it.
  
- Rollups/L2 will rule the world. We have seen quite a few new rollups in the last few months: Linea, Base, zkSync Era, zkEVM, mantle, zora, public goods network, worldcoin. There are now over 30 L2s lised on L2Beat. But not only new rollups pop up. Existing chains switch to an optimistic rollup: Celo pretty much decided to become an optimistic rollup, fantom started a similar discussion. Also gnosis chain is looking into ways to become an L2 (a validium, not a rollup) to Ethereum. It looks like the next narrative might be having the best rollup/L2 on top of Ethereum and not so much an creating another Ethereum killer. I am really looking forward to what the rollup/L2 landscape will look like in a year.
  
- Eigenlayer: In a few months we will probably see if Eigenlayer is more than just a bunch of convincing powerpoint slides and a charismatic speaker. We will see if they have actual product market fit and enough demand for their ideas. There are already some interesting developments with the espresso sequencers and the already started mantle L2. Even though I am not sure how mantle can use EigenDA if Eigenlayer is not much more than a restaking smart contract at the moment. In a few months we will see. I am also curious how Eigenlayer will tackle centralisation issues.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nixorokish breaks the news of the staking deposit churn limit EIP being included in the next hard fork</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16i99gu/daily_general_discussion_september_14_2023/k0ldob9/)

The decision was made during the ACD call today to include EIP-7514 in Dencun, which sets a max churn limit for the *activation* queue (note: does not affect the exit queue). 

What's been happening up until now is that the more validators that are in the set, the faster they can get added (the math is here: <https://benjaminion.xyz/eth2-annotated-spec/phase0/beacon-chain/#get_validator_churn_limit>). 

This keeps the network stable and makes the size of the validator set somewhat predictable. Since the validator set has been growing *a lot* since Shapella, this number is getting bigger and bigger and the network is growing faster and faster. EIP-7514 caps the number of validators that can be added each epoch at 8.

I believe that there could be some controversy about this over the next few days because it was created and added quickly but Dankrad published a post today on why he supports it and he says everything more eloquently and with more context than I could, so have a read of his post here: <https://notes.ethereum.org/@dankrad/churn-limit>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/jenkempuffer shares an interesting new EIP</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16i99gu/daily_general_discussion_september_14_2023/k0iipb6/)

<https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7503>

This EIP is interesting. 

Base layer privacy is definitely something that's needed for adoption imo. Especially as forensic tools and tracking get better over time and transaction data remains on-chain forever it will be easier to dox and link wallets. Hard to see regular people wanting to use Ethereum if that's the case. 

Private ETH defs a good thing but maybe this EIP will introduce some additional risk (minting and burning ETH at base layer might have previously unthought of attack vectors). I'm not big brained enough to interrogate the code.

Anyone here have some thoughts on this EIP?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LowieVR starts a discussion about Ethereum's long term future regarding ETH issuance and gets some great replies</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16jyqtv/daily_general_discussion_september_16_2023/k0te15s/)

Anybody got some wise predictions on gas fees in the future? Seems right now that gas fees are low, which makes eth inflationary, which makes it not a 'sound business' anymore according to [https://tokenterminal.com/leaderboards/earnings](https://tokenterminal.com/leaderboards/earnings) in past 7 days.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptOwOcurrency warns of the latest trend in Twitter scams</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16krxzo/daily_general_discussion_september_17_2023/k10blj4/)

Twitter scams are getting more and more elaborate.

The latest one is where they create a fake @MetaMask twitter account, then take a *whole month* to build up their post history by copying every post of the real MetaMask account. During this month, they also gradually build their follower count through bots. Of course, Twitter does not detect any of this activity as suspicious because they have entirely lost the plot.

If you were to glance at the twitter account, you'd see an account with tens of thousands of "followers" and a post history that scrolls on and on for many pages. Looks pretty damn close to the real MetaMask account.

Stay safe.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll gives Gary the middle finger</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16lmall/daily_general_discussion_september_18_2023/k14jjll/)

Gary Gensler is what is wrong with America. Here we have a man, who clearly has a good grasp on blockchain as evidenced by his history teaching it at MIT. Yet despite this, he decides to completely contradict his previous teachings in favour of at best furthering his own personal political ambitions and at worst outright corruption in an effort by an invisible hand to stamp out crypto.

Classic 4th turning and fall of empires stuff right here. The ubiquity of wealth and excess surrounding him and his generation throughout their lifetime has left those that wish to participate in politics and influence devoid of values upon which his once great nation was built. In place of these values are the primal instincts of greed, power, pleasure and self preservation which are the fruits which can be attained from corrupting such rich and powerful institutions. These people are devoid of morals and will lead us down the path towards authoritarianism and collapse as seen time and time again throughout history, Rome and Weimar Germany being the most obvious.

In short, fuck you Gary, this is all your fault.

^(Obviously there is a degree of hyperbole here as there are other factors at play too like demographics, but at the same time the writing is on the wall and despite having learned from history, I can’t wait to watch it play out in a very similar way again thanks to those who haven’t learned from history. While that may be a call for me to step up and try to be one of the great men in history, I’m not convinced that my qualifications are up to scratch. I should’ve studied politics or something.)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/vedran_ checks in after a few months away</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16mhwki/daily_general_discussion_september_19_2023/k19zd2w/)

Yo ETH fam! I've been away from crypto for a few months, but not like I expect you to remember me. Today I've been scanning L2 landscape changes, DeFi and airdrop hunting possibilities.

Base took off fast, my golly. First in TPS today, third in TVL. How did that come about? Did they mention an airdrop? How stable is it? I get that fraud proofs are not developed yet.

I'm a fan of single-side LPing. No impermanent loss for me, thank you very much for offering. I see there are some new possibilities for it on zkSync Era: EraLend, Reactorfusion, ZeroLend. Cool! APY on ETH and USDC is <2%, but it's nice to park some spare tokens, waiting for an airdrop.

Rhino.fi surprised me pleasantly. 10% APY on ETH in one pool. Left some ETH there a few months ago - I'm not disappointed.

I'd like to use this opportunity to thank Optimism! 

I see it's a bit gloomy in here. As somebody who's been in the game for quite a while now - **this is the easiest bear ever**! We are above 2018 ATH ^^if ^^you ^^ignore ^^inflation. But most importantly, development is phenomenal! L1s becoming L2s on Ethereum! You mentioned Canto, Celo, Fantom, Gnosis yesterday. Just waiting on Solana and Cardano to pull the trigger. Ethereum has become what it promised to be. Front page of L2beat is a thing of beauty! We are cemented, baby! This may very well kill *ETH killer* narrative in the next bull.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard continues his detailed discussion of governance tokens</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16mhwki/daily_general_discussion_september_19_2023/k18huxd/)

I wrote [recently](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16c6vpw/daily_general_discussion_september_7_2023/jzk2o58/) about multicameral governance designs. The responses that have come up in response to that post have taken 2 forms:

1) Isn't this going to devalue the governance token? What is the point of a governance token that only has a minority power over governance? I talk about that [here](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16fmfto/daily_general_discussion_september_11_2023/k02q0ue/).

2) Voter participation sucks and we need to concentrate power to make anything work around here. Let's dive in to that.

Most DAOs today have a voter participation rate of less than 20%. Even when delegation is supported the delegates themselves aren’t all particularly great at participation and need a cat herder to get much done. The exceptions to this rule are DAOs where there are regular votes and where voters get paid extra by voting.

Two examples that come to mind for this are Kyber Network and Curve. Kyber Network directly rewards voter participation. You can see the rewards for current and past votes [here](https://kyberswap.com/kyberdao/vote). Curve is a bit more indirect in that only a subset of governance decisions come with monetary compensation and that compensation is indirect through bribes. This one is a more complicated topic I dive into a bit [here](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/evolutions-in-liquidity-sourcing/).

An interesting footnote about the Curve participation is the ve system and admin fees that are optimized by pairing veCRV with liquidity has led to liquid lockers (yCRV, sdCRV, cvxCRV, etc) to optimize revenue. These liquid lockers have a side effect of concentrating voting power. As a consequence of that Curve has outstanding voter participation amongst its tokens but a relatively low Nakamoto coefficient.

One clear lesson that stands out from both of the above examples is voters participate better if there are regular votes that they are paid to show up and participate in. Outside of the obvious incentive alignment that comes with compensating voter participation, voter participation increases when:

1) Voting is cost-minimized

2) Their vote is perceived as being more impactful on the outcome

3) They have something to lose

Drawing a parallel to elections to nation states. US voters are more active when:

1) Their state supports voting by mail and other mechanisms to make voting more convenient

2) They live in a swing state or a state without first-past-the-post electoral college rules

3) They are voting on an issue that affects them more personally (e.g. women vote more actively when abortion is a hot topic). Bribery is seasonal along the same lines (e.g. the NRA donates more when gun rights are a hot topic).

For blockchains, cost minimization is a matter of off-chain message signatures rather than L1 transactions like Maker has. There’s not much we can do for the second point without concentrating power and sacrificing voter participation but contentious votes having higher participation is a natural phenomenon.

The last thing we can do is create something to lose for each vote. This comes in two flavors. First, we can use bonded KPIs to attach something at stake to each vote. The basic concept of a bonded KPI is simple. You bond your influence against a prediction during a commit round each cycle (e.g. quarterly, yearly, etc). The bonded influence is the only influence eligible to vote. Your vote goes into effect immediately but your prediction is kept secret during the cycle. At the end of the cycle, everyone reveals their prediction by posting a decryption key. Then a decentralized one-shot oracle like UMA provides a value for the metric. The bonded influence is redistributed based on the relative accuracy of everyone’s predictions. Finally everyone claims their influence from the bonded KPI and the next cycle begins. The result is that influence will trend towards those best at making predictions. I suggest the skill of making accurate predictions is correlated with competence at voting well. When combined with a value-aligning selection criteria for initial influence to bond, we end up solving the stated goal of selecting a rational, informed, value-aligned set of voters that vote on the most important issues of the day.

This system breaks down where someone can have enough influence over the metric to predict that very bad things will happen, ensure they do, and be rewarded for doing so. This is similar to how “assassin” prediction markets work or why we don’t let athletes bet to lose their own match. In that case I’d suggest the DAO might just have to dissolve that governing body and form a new one without that bad actor. It’s a thorny problem for sure.

The second flavor is an inactivity leak for not voting. For tradable tokens this isn't viable unless you somehow ensure all forms of LP token (e.g. Uniswap NFTs, Aave aTokens, etc) are also eligible to vote. However, this system is more viable when influence is not an ERC-20 token. In that case, getting influence in a governing body is a bonus perk of something external to the governing body. Once you're in, unless you’re doing active work for the governing body your relative influence should decay. In broad terms the active work of a governing body is to continually do the things the issuance selection criteria select for and to vote well. I think it’s therefore fair that if someone is voting poorly (see KPI above) or not using their voting power regularly they should lose that influence. A DAO is ill-served by having a large voter base of inactive/inattentive voters, even if they delegate. Measuring voting activity is much easier than measuring vote quality.

An implementation of inactivity could resemble something like Ethereum’s where the higher the percentage of the existing voters are inactive the higher the turnover of influence should be. This creates something of a market-based approach to encourage voter participation. The end result is create higher turnover of the governing body to one consisting of active participants and then to pay them for the hard work of voting well. By the numbers we have, this is how you actually build a DAO and not just a fundraising mechanism.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ajmonkfish shares an article from our very own u/pbrody</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16ncizo/daily_general_discussion_september_20_2023/k1e17bh/)

Great little article by u/pbrody on coindesk today.

<https://www.coindesk.com/consensus-magazine/2023/09/19/eventually-we-are-all-ethereum/>

TLDR; All your chains are belong to us, om nom nom.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/PhiMarHal summarises a tweet thread on the Lido problem</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/16ncizo/daily_general_discussion_september_20_2023/k1es43m/)

This tweet by Ryan Berckmans is a great summary of the Lido situation, in my opinion.

<https://twitter.com/ryanberckmans/status/1704192307270975643>

It boils down to two logical inconsistencies:

1) no CEX is in the run to dominate staking. Data doesn't support that theory. To assert it as fact is gaslighting.

2) if a winner-takes-most structure is inevitable, why is Lido spending enormous LDO bribes through the entire ecosystem to this day? 

The data here is even more damning than for CEXes. No LSD is a credible competitor to the tune suggested (a winner-takes-most scenario does not merely imply a competitor would catch up, it would also suggest that competitor's size towers over Lido at least to the current extent Lido towers over the competition).

As long as those logical inconsistencies are core points of the Lido thesis, there is a problem with Lido.

</details>
