---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-02-24
episode: 8
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/11ak2qc/daily_general_discussion_february_24_2023/j9u8ko1/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhifKezKprY
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/105654
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/11ak2qc/comment/j9shcoc/)

[u/Mister_Eth](https://reddit.com/u/Mister_Eth)

> Ethereum

[u/Vinegar_Strokes__](https://reddit.com/u/Vinegar_Strokes__)

> $1645

[u/696_eth](https://reddit.com/u/696_eth)

> 0.068


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/jtnichol looks for a shitpost of the week</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/11ak2qc/daily_general_discussion_february_24_2023/j9ttyfr/)

[u/jtnichol](https://reddit.com/u/jtnichol)

> Hey fam! We're looking for a nomination for "Shitpost of the week" to be included today in the livestream.  Got any suggestions?  Reply here with the link!  see you soon!

[u/Yeopaa](https://reddit.com/u/Yeopaa)

> <https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/11ak2qc/daily_general_discussion_february_24_2023/j9ttyfr/>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/113jhtv/daily_general_discussion_february_16_2023/j8ufwzp/)

*What is Gary's mood?*

*Bailing Sam out was so rude,*

*Do Kwon just got sued.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Today in Ethereum: u/ZeroTricks</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://]reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/11ak2qc/daily_general_discussion_february_24_2023/j9u4782/])

On this day...

In 2022:

- Flexpool.io [halts](https://reddit.com/r/EtherMining/comments/t0hvvb/announcement_flexpoolio_is_halting_all_service_to/) all services to Russia.
- A tear drops at 1 ETH, $2598, or ₿0.06778.


In 2021:

- Optimism [announces](https://medium.com/ethereum-optimism/dope-hires-moar-mainnet-in-march-174fa8966361) arbitrary contract deployments go live on mainnet in March.
- dYdX [launches](https://dydx.exchange/blog/alpha) cross-margined perpetuals on StarkWare's Layer 2.
- A16z [leads](https://a16z.com/2021/02/24/investing-in-optimism) a $25 million Series A investment in Optimism.
- JP Morgan [tests](https://www.reuters.com/article/jpmorgan-blockchain-space-idUSL1N2KT0RA) payments between satellites using Quorum.
- Swiss bank Bordier & Cie [incorporates](https://www.bordier.swiss/en/2021/02/24/bordier-and-cie-scma-to-offer-cryptocurrencies-to-their-customers-via-sygnums-all-in-one-b2b-banking-platform) Sygnum’s banking platform to offer Bitcoin, Ether, Bitcoin Cash and Tezos.
- CoinShares [launches](https://www.prnewswire.co.uk/news-releases/coinshares-launches-new-physically-backed-ethereum-exchange-traded-product-etp--803894888.html) a physically-backed Ethereum ETP.
- Trent Van Epps and Tim Beiko [catalog](https://github.com/ethereum-cat-herders/1559-outreach/blob/main/README.md) application sentiment on #EIP1559: "Almost every project / team supports this change".
- ETH offers between $1577 and $1622 for ₿0.03265.


In 2020:

- Vitalik Buterin and Vlad Zamfir [discuss](https://twitter.com/VitalikButerin/status/1231977662739959812) chain governance, in which the former criticizes the way ProgPOW was "ninja-approved".
- Bitmain's Antminer E3 [could stop supporting](https://2miners.com/blog/antminer-e3-stops-mining-ethereum-classic-just-over-a-month-remaining-for-ethereum) Ethereum soon, as it's internal memory is almost filled up with Ethereum's growing mining epoch DAG.
- Oh brother, why selleth, between $274 and $265, at ₿0.02749?


In 2019:

- ETH klettersteigs from $159 to $136, or ₿0.03837 to ₿0.03575.


In 2018:

- Micah Dameron [writes](https://github.com/chronaeon/beigepaper) the Ethereum Beige paper, a readable rewrite of Ethereum's yellow paper.
- Furthermore, ETH becomes further less, at $842, or ₿0.08655.


In 2017:

- Ethereum's Ropsten testnet [gets spammed](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/5vuni5/testnet_ropsten_is_currently_being_spammed/).
- ETH acts like a stablecoin at $13.1, or ₿0.01113.

-------------
[compiled with love](https://eth-archive.xyz/blog/on-this-day-in-ethereum-workflow/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz has a disclosure to make but it still putting values first</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/113jhtv/daily_general_discussion_february_16_2023/j8t3bo9/)

I want to disclose that I've contracted with EY to offer community education regarding their Nightfall and Starlight products for a few months. This isn't a full time job, just an agreement to spend more time learning about Nightfall and Starlight, then sharing what I've learned.

Let me give you some idea what this means. My credibility to the community is the most important thing I have in crypto, so I'll never do or say anything that would degrade that credibility. Many people who know and trust me hold that trust because I'm extremely selective about things I talk about. I focus on highly aligned projects that add value to the whole ecosystem and don't extract value for anyone. You might know that EY's privacy tools led by Paul Brody's team fill that niche for me, and I'm very confident about that fit after knowing Paul several years.

My intention is to learn more and share more about Nightfall and Starlight and help them find the traction they deserve and I hope you'll join me in this quest. If these tools succeed in the market, Ethereum will be the greatest beneficiary.

I need you to know that I can't be bought. I'm agreeing to this contract because it's good for the web3 community, our community, Ethereum, and EY. I believe that any greater knowledge we develop about these products will benefit all parties in the long run.

I will always continue to do my best to earn your trust as I find the best tools and opportunities to share with other Ethfinanciers, but I also need you to put your own judgement first. Ask yourself if I'm doing things that make sense for all of us or if I've lost my way. Follow your own good judgement, not mine. <3

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/SikhSoldiers covers the RocketPool x Coinbase Ventures partnership</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/114c6on/daily_general_discussion_february_17_2023/j8vjsek/)

> We are always happy and willing to be ambassadors for the benefits of decentralisation and how that can provide a deep benefit for all those involved. So it is with great pleasure that we want to relay that Coinbase Ventures has invested in the protocol. We recently announced their intentions to join the oDAO, so this is just another step in them willing to back a decentralised staking protocol such as Rocket Pool.
  
"We're excited to announce that Coinbase Ventures is deepening its partnership with Rocket Pool via a direct investment into RPL in addition to its proposed entry into the oDAO. Coinbase Ventures also plans to use their RPL and ETH to spin up their own Rocket Pool minipools." 
  
/- Coinbase Ventures

From the Rocket Pool discord. Pretty impressive evolution of the CB Ventures x Rocket Pool relationship.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/15kisFUD asks if Coinbase spinning up RocketPool nodes is good, bad or neutral for decentralization</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/114c6on/daily_general_discussion_february_17_2023/j8w36bk/)

I’m in a discussion with a community member that I respect very much, yet strangely we do not seem to agree on something. 

Question for the fam:

If Coinbase would start spinning up Rocket Pool minipools instead of regular validators from today on, would this be good, bad or neutral for decentralization?

Please limit the discussion to this question about decentralization only. I don’t want it to be a value judgement on Rocket Pool. Of course any actor can use it as it is permissionless. This is not a fault of the protocol. Also please don’t discuss how unlikely or likely it is that Coinbase would do this. It might be very unlikely with all the risks (RPL exposure, regalutory, other). I just want to know if you think my hypothetical question would be good or bad for decentralization

---

[u/kainzilla](https://reddit.com/u/kainzilla)

You asked me to post my comment in reply to this thread, but I think it might be worth re-writing it suited for some of the answers I see here. I'm going to write this as if the LEB-8 (8 ETH minipools) are in effect, because that is the long term goal. For anyone reading this not familiar with Rocket Pool, the current version of minipools instead has 16 ETH from the minipool operator and 16 ETH taken from the rETH pool. This difference doesn't impact the following statements, with the exception of making the barrier-of-entry lower.

&nbsp;

# Is it good, bad, or neutral for major staking entities to use the Rocket Pool protocol?

**Answer:** I believe the effect on decentralization is neutral, but in spite of that neutral effect from this factor alone I think it would be _actually devastating_ to Ethereum's prospects to shut out large entities, due to runaway centralization behind 2-3 broadly used liquid staking tokens. Here are my thoughts.

&nbsp;

# Important Note: What does Rocket Pool do to help decentralize the network?

1. It lowers the barrier to entry for a solo staker from 32 ETH, down to 8 ETH + a portion of collateral (roughly a 70% reduction in initial capital required).
2. It gives parties interested in acquiring staking services access to a service pool that isn't monopolized by a single entity (it is permissionless).
3. Specifically note that "gives more nodes to smaller stakers" isn't in this list. This will be addressed below.

&nbsp;

# Fallacy 1: Comparing centralized entity Rocket Pool use to centralized entities not using Rocket Pool

* The protocol is permissionless, and you cannot prevent any size staker from using it.
* The permissionless feature is non-negotiable, as otherwise centralization is a factor and the protocol is pointless.
* Desire to deny large entities from using it is pointless, and large entities staking in RP should be considered a likely outcome.
* Are features #1 and #2 outlined above compromised by large entities using the protocol? I believe these features are not compromised.
* With that in mind, the comparison of centralized entities using Rocket Pool vs. not using it results in a net neutral comparison minus a concern addressed in the next section.
* A much more important comparison when thinking about Rocket Pool usefulness is "How does this compare to the situation without any Rocket Pool?"

&nbsp;

# Fallacy 2: Increased node counts for centralized entities using Rocket Pool

Some comments here point to the fact that small stakers can obtain a 4x node power "multiplier" against large staking entities, and that large staking entities entering the picture defeats this purpose. This is a fallacy, however:

* **If you could** engineer a Rocket Pool protocol where you could magically keep out large-entity stakers, you could then tout "increased node counts for small stakers" as a decentralization-increasing feature of Rocket Pool, but that feature would only function up to the number of small node operators you would have available in the pool. Once that pool of small stakers runs out however, no further rETH could be created.
* Any demand for staking services beyond what rETH capacity exists would then likely flow over to centralized staking entities outright. Meaning that they would be spinning up more nodes, _just as if they had spun them up from rETH-provided funds_. It would literally just end up a 1:1 conversion.
* The end result of this hypothetical scenario where you block out large stakers, is that you have lost:
    1. The permissionless feature, and more importantly,
    2. you've seriously handicapped the value your accessible-to-all staking services access pool due to the low ceiling of possible funds, and the fact that you just forced a huge number of customers over to centralized entities providing liquid staking tokens.

&nbsp;

The same scenario effectively plays out if you make the comparison of centralized entities using RP vs. RP not existing:

* In this scenario where Rocket Pool doesn't exist, it's once again a very, _very_ safe assumption that people whom are already comfortable delegating their funds for staking on the network, would instead use centralized services for their staking instead.
* This means that it's safe to assume that all funds flowing into rETH in the centralized-entities RP scenario would instead just be... with those centralized entities you're concerned with.
* Now, in this scenario, there isn't an accessible-to-all staking services market at all, and it's almost 100% guaranteed that one staking service is going to become popular on a runaway level purely due to the convenience of having a single liquid staking token. Lido almost did this on accident purely by being early to market and being able to expand rapidly.

&nbsp;

Considering those two scenarios, node counts for any of these scenarios are **irrelevant and are not a factor in comparing any situation for Rocket Pool**. The fact is, Rocket Pool _will_ actually give a slight node-power advantage to decentralization, but only by virtue of feature #1 - _the reduced barrier-to-entry._ There is no scenario where Rocket Pool increases the amount of power a centralized entity has in comparison to Rocket Pool not existing, or locking centralized entities out.

# The actual strength of Rocket Pool decentralization

So what's the actual strength of Rocket Pool? It's specifically item #2, the accessible-to-all staking services pool. The lowered barrier to entry for actual node-operators at 8 ETH is to be frank pretty awesome and amazing, and it's going to let a lot more people into the ETH staking ecosystem, but the point that people keep missing about the accessible-to-all staking services pool that is provided is that it **keeps the biggest liquid-staking token out of the hands of a single entity**, or at the very least provides a nearly-unstoppable competitor. If Rocket Pool didn't exist, staking-services users would have **nowhere** to send their money except centralizing forces, and what's more is that small operations wouldn't be able to attract staking-services customers for shit - nobody would use little-known liquid-staking tokens, and the small operations would get crushed on margins by the big operations.

Every centralized entity that joins this accessible-to-all pool makes it that much harder for any centralized entity to monopolize the liquid-staking-token market, and even better, the protocol itself isn't really able to use it's own dominance of the liquid-staking market to try and shut out competitors except by trying to provide better service to keep people using rETH - so even competitors will still be able to rise up if they make something truly great. The protocol can't blacklist competing liquid-staking tokens on the protocol's (non-existent) exchange, the protocol can't make back-room deals to give more favorable staking percentages to special, favored customers, the protocol can't lock out small staking providers that the big providers don't like.

Rocket Pool can't actually shut out centralized or large entities by design, and it also shouldn't because doing so is inherently a bad idea. Any centralization of node operators on the Rocket Pool protocol would have existed without Rocket Pool, and if you try and shut them out that money gets transferred _right over to external centralized entities anyways_. Rocket Pool's design has likely averted a scenario where a few major exchanges dominated the entire staking services market on the Ethereum chain, which... to be honest, I think would have truly killed the decentralization angle and left us with little claim to security.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/edrews99 reminds us that exchanges will not call you if they detect something suspicious</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1158cdi/daily_general_discussion_february_18_2023/j921uz2/)

Heads up, I received an unsolicited call this morning allegedly coming from Coinbase support indicating that my account had been logged into from another country and that they were placing a hold on my account. While on the phone they sent me an email confirming this and a text message with a link to hxxps://issue-coinbase.com/email=?[EMAIL] to reset my account. They then gave me an 8 digit password over the phone with which to login.

I pretty much knew from the start that this was bullshit but the hxxps://issue-coinbase.com domain really sealed it. If you get any unsolicited calls from any exchange *please* ignore it, and maybe report it here for educational purposes. Stay safe out there.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/domotheus demolishes the deflationary FUD on r/Buttcoin</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1158cdi/daily_general_discussion_february_18_2023/j90rv66/)

> Anyone with an ounce of understanding about economies knows why a DEFLATIONARY currency could never work as the standard.

As the standard for what? Buying eggs and bread? Paying people's salaries? Investing in stuff? Sure. In that case, a deflationary, value-appreciating currency is bad. Thankfully that's not what Ether is.

> We need money to lose value over time to deincentivise people sitting on savings.

The first and foremost job of Ether as an asset is to provide economic security to Ethereum. "Anyone with an ounce of understanding" about that realizes it'd be dumb to devalue this asset on purpose. Ether is collateral money, not debt money. Having the value of your collateral go up gives you more bandwidth to participate in the economy by doing more stuff you otherwise couldn't

> Only when money is used does it lube up the economy by providing cash flow for industry.

Again that's not really Ether's job to do that, but even then it still does it well inside the Ethereum economy: it's deflationary BECAUSE it's being used. "Anyone with an ounce of understanding" quickly realizes this cause and effect relationship and doesn't invert it by claiming being deflationary causes people to not use it.

Ethereum sells blockspace and blockspace accessories. This blockspace is *worth* something, people are willingly paying for it, choosing to burn their precious deflationary ETH in exchange for it. There is no "bad money drives out good" when it comes to buying blockspace, thanks to EIP-1559.

I'm tired of these takes that miss out on all the nuance. "ETH deflation bad because deflation encourages hoarding" is one of them. And yes, "ETH deflation good because supply goes down = line go up" is another one. It's a cringe meme responding to Bitcoin's equally cringe "capped supply = sound money" meme.

The truth is fundamentally, whether the supply goes up or down doesn't affect the velocity of ETH. Whether supply goes up or down, it's all just an accounting trick that doesn't change the fact that value ultimately flows from *users* (paying for blockspace) into the pockets of *holders* (who are likely to be staking, directly or indirectly). You're not magically gonna turn a hoarder into a user if you increase issuance, because that hoarder is already staking anyway.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/busterrulezzz minted 69 AI generated variants of EIPandas and EVMavericks dropped to random holders!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/11632qy/daily_general_discussion_february_19_2023/j97ybh3/)

Good news! I finally completed my quest of remixing 69 EVMavericks and EIPandas with Midjourney. They have all been minted on Polygon and sent to their respective owners. To see the results, [here is the OpenSea collection](https://opensea.io/collection/evmavericks-and-eipandas-special-evm392-editions).

I want to thank everybody that participated in my little project. Your amazing reactions to my artworks mean the world to me! If you had a request and didn't receive it, feel free to DM me, I might have missed some messages.

I will mint one last epic remix and put it up at auction in the next few days, and then I will get to work on my sequel to Worthless JPEGs!, my satirical collection.

Thanks again everyone.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/OkDragonfruit1929 explains the mechanics behind why ETH has been deflationary</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/116z82t/daily_general_discussion_february_20_2023/j99ww6e/)

It's quite a brilliant feature of eip 1559.

If demand for blockspace falls below a certain threshold, ETH issuance goes up while gas prices go down. This has the effect of making it more likely for more people to use ETH, bringing us back to more demand for blockspace.

If demand for blockspace is above a certain threshold, ETH issuance goes ultrasound. More ETH fees are burned instead of given to validators.

If staking becomes extremely desirable, and more and more people stake,  staking rewards APY falls, and the threshold of blockspace demand required for fee burns increases.

If staking becomes less desirable and more and more people unstake, staking APY increases and the threshold for fee burning falls.

It's a completely automated, decentralized monetary policy which favors equilibrium. Nothing else on earth like it.

Ethereum eip 1559 increases incentive to secure the network in a way that avoids inflating the supply, without being 100% reliant on market forces such as gas fees. Unlike Bitcoin security which will eventually become completely enslaved to the wills and fluctuations of the market, and without sufficient fees (blockspace demand) will become more and more centralized and less and less secure.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Hawaii_Facts has a HodlerCon 2024 update. BeachBum hodlers vote on your favourite locations! </summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/117w2io/daily_general_discussion_february_21_2023/j9foucy/)

Hodlercon 2024 update: BeachBum NFT hodlers can now vote for destinations at [https://hodlercon.com/](https://hodlercon.com/). (Edit: Tickets to Hodlercon 2022 included a BeachBum. If you attended and haven't minted yours, DM me. Others can mint them at [https://hodlercon.com/beachbums](https://hodlercon.com/beachbums)).

The Twitter Spaces launch from Sunday is recorded at [https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1MYGNgYljAnJw?](https://twitter.com/i/spaces/1MYGNgYljAnJw?) (45 minutes with superphiz, Paul Brody, nikola\_j, DoubtStars and friends).

The highest vote-getter as of March 17 in each of three cohorts will be thrown to the will of the ETH price gods — Whichever price band we're in on June 15, 2023, will determine the location of Hodlercon 2024.

There's a blurb on each destination at [https://hodlercon.com/#details](https://hodlercon.com/#details). Here're the candidates, proposed by Hodlercon attendees, EthFinanciers, ethstakers and anyone else who wanted to pitch in:

* $0-$1,400
  * Camping with JT around Kansas City
  * Goblintown Creek, Virginia
  * Orlando, Florida
  * Smoky Mountain Glamping, Tennessee
  * Los Cabos, Mexico
* $1,401-$4,800
  * Puerto Rico
  * Bermuda
  * Iceland
  * Thailand
  * Portugal
* $4,801-$31,250
  * Greece
  * Hoi An, Vietnam
  * Fiji
  * New Zealand
  * Ireland

Mahalo for voting.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HolyFlatulence shares an excerpt from the incumbents</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/118qid5/daily_general_discussion_february_22_2023/j9k2c6k/)

Very interesting speech just given by Augustin Carstens, the General manager for the BIS. Pay close attention to the last paragraph/bolded text. They totally understand the power of shared ledgers/opensource/composable. They just want to centralize it and own it.

edit: formatting; summarizing a little bc the kicker comes at the end of a wall of text.

&#x200B;

> A unified ledger is a digital infrastructure with the potential to combine the monetary system with other registries of real and financial claims. It would need to be a public-private partnership with a clear division of roles, and where the central bank is tasked with underpinning the trust in money.  
>  
> Like smartphone platforms, a unified ledger allows various components to work seamlessly together. But unlike them, it is enabled by open architecture that promotes financial inclusion and greater competition.  
>  
> Such a ledger allows for the use of smart contracts and composability. A smart contract is a computer program that executes conditional "if/then" and "while" commands. Composability means that many smart contracts, covering multiple transactions and situations, can be bundled together, like "money lego".  
>  
> With these new functionalities, any sequence of transactions in programmable money can be automated and seamlessly integrated. This reduces the need for manual interventions that delay transactions and reduces dependency on intermediaries, and also allows for simultaneous and near-instant payments and settlement.  
>  
> Greater interoperability and automated transfers could ultimately benefit consumers through more convenient and cheaper products that are better tailored to their needs, thereby enhancing financial inclusion.  
>  
> These foreseeable gains may just be the tip of the iceberg of additional transformations. Think about how the smartphone displaced digital cameras. It was not because it takes better pictures, but because it's easier to share these pictures with friends through the same device.  
>  
> **Importantly, programmability and composability do not require decentralised or permissionless platforms. All the potential benefits I just outlined can be achieved in permissioned platforms with various degrees of centralisation.** What really brings the benefits of these projects together is the use of money as a means of payment and settlement. As the provider of the ultimate settlement asset in the economy, the central bank therefore has an important role to play in the governance of a unified ledger. But it would do so in partnership with other public agencies as well as with private sector participants.

[Link to the full text of the speech.](https://www.bis.org/speeches/sp230222.htm)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>/u/papazio response: Have you ever boosted a Maker vault at $4500 ETH?</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/114c6on/daily_general_discussion_february_17_2023/j8yv6cy/)

[u/sayno2mids](https://reddit.com/u/sayno2mids)

> I think FOMO is more stressful than losing money

---

[u/Papazio](https://reddit.com/u/Papazio)

> Have you ever boosted a Maker vault at $4500 ETH?
> 
> You get to experience both in very short order and learn that the latter is much, much worse.

</details>  
