---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-08-25
episode: 32
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/160phdq/daily_general_discussion_august_25_2023/jxofhnn
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2fknVVDi1tU
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/148487
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/160phdq/comment/jxnmbjd/)

[u/Kitchen-Pudding8750](https://reddit.com/u/Kitchen-Pudding8750)

> Ethereum

[u/Zeebrasurfer](https://reddit.com/u/Zeebrasurfer)

> $1649

[u/the-A-word](https://reddit.com/u/the-A-word)

> 0.063

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15yts52/comment/jxhd3wp/)

*Ask your reporter,*

*On to the final quarter,*

*Supply gets shorter.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>The Queue: u/Spacesider</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/160phdq/daily_general_discussion_august_25_2023/jxoryf3/)

Your daily beacon chain dose.

Active validators: 751,257 (+1,812)

Pending validators: Joining 58.6k, leaving \~0

* Entry queue -600 from yesterday's number
* It will take around 23 days for the entry queue to clear
* In around 14 days the amount of daily validators that can both enter or exit will be increased from 2,475 to 2,700.

*These figures are based on the entry and exit queue at the time of posting*

This can also be tracked via <https://validatorqueue.com/>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/savage-dragon</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15zrzr8/comment/jxioryo/)

Ben Cowen is calling for eth coming home again.

---

[u/intothecryptoverse](https://reddit.com/u/intothecryptoverse) (Ben Cowen):


> Honestly it's comical that people even listen to that guy

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/SikhSoldiers compares the pros and cons of on-chain vs off-chain swaps</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15uartw/daily_general_discussion_august_18_2023/jwsdij5/)

Cowswap is awesome. You generally get the best price for execution and you have gas abstracted away. It’s so good that uniswap is more or less copying them for univ4 

However, the Coincidence of Wants that CoW is famed for is an off chain matching system. If we have the largest dex in the space move liquidity / market making off chain, we will be making a huge shift towards a lunarpunk ethos in perhaps a negative way. 

Onchain liquidity numbers have been super transparent and is the basis for most risk analysis. I’ve gotten reth accepted as collateral on many different lending platforms and have read through a number of analyses. The one common point across all of these platforms has been proof of lasting liquidity. In fact, it was this consistent request across protocols for probable liquidity that formed the basis for reth having liquidity incentives to begin with - we needed to prove reth was liquid. 

Back to the issue at hand, when market makers move off chain they will no longer be sourcing from onchain LPs. There was a tweet a few days ago (if I wasn’t banned I’d find it) that showed only a small handful of people provided most of the ETH/usd liquidity on uni. If these people decided to become searchers in the cowswap or univ4 system, then they wouldn’t have public liquidity and slippage would become hard to predict. 

I am very favorable towards privacy in certain cases; public liquidation levels is dumb as fuck. However, onchain liquidity is like a global proof of reserves. The whole world benefits by being able to have reasonable ideas about slippage. 

Perhaps we can get the best of both worlds. It’s not unreasonable for these off chain market makers to have to post zk proofs of their holdings on chain somehow. It doesn’t have to be individualized since we only care about the picture globally. This system would also warn people when liquidity vanishes which is an issue otherwise.

Not to mention SUAVE makes this whole problem worse by abstracting liquidity at the block building level

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ethacct celebrates their cake day by reflecting on the last 7 years...</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15v6qz8/daily_general_discussion_august_19_2023/jwtmar3/)

it's my cake day 🥳

seven years ago I realized I was posting too much crypto stuff on my main account, so i decided to make an 'ethereum account' instead. these days my main account is long gone, and i have fully become ethereum account 🫡

bear market things + life changes mean i haven't been around as much, but still lurking here from time to time, and still shitposting on twitter/X/whatever it's called now.  I'll be back when there's exciting stuff to talk about again (pricewise or techwise or both).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 shares a mental model of scaling via L2s vs scaling the L1</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15uartw/daily_general_discussion_august_18_2023/jwptp73/)

A few days ago someone asked on /r/ethereum what's the advantage of scaling via L2 vs L1. I started drafting my response but life got in the way and couldn't give a timely answer. I will instead post it here, most of you will understand well this topic. But it might benefit someone that didn't think about the problem in these terms or give you another way to explain it to newcomers.

> Here is a very simple mental model to understand the scalability trilemma, or why blockchains don't scale in a trivial/naive manner.
> 
> The scalability trilemma basically states that from the following 3 properties; decentralization, security, scalability. A blockchain can only pick two. The moment you try to attain the other, you start to give up some of the other properties.
> 
> The easiest way to see why is to understand the two trivial/naive ways to scale a system. They are called horizontal and vertical scalability. Horizontal scalability is, in essence, adding more instances of the machine to solve the problem in parallel. For instance, your CPU has multiple cores to scale it horizontally. Vertical scalability is about adding more resources to a single instance, to make it able to process more per unit of time. More memory, faster CPU, faster internet connection...
> 
> The thing is that these 2 techniques are directly at odds with the other 2 properties of the trilemma. Vertical scalability is at odds with decentralization. And horizontal scalability is at odds with security.
> 
> In essence, if you make the requirements to run a node bigger (vertical scalability) you make it harder and harder for anyone that wants to run an instance. Instead of being able to run it in a consumer grade PC, you will have to run in an AWS intance, or a mainframe. Or whatever ridiculous machine you need to validate [Solana](https://docs.solana.com/running-validator/validator-reqs). So if you simply increase the resources needed to run a node you end up centralizing the network. This is what Avalanche, Solana, and various other alt-L1s that promised to have solved scalability did. They are just giving up decentralization for scalability.
> 
> And horizontal scalability essentially requires splitting the network in shards, each of which validates different sets of transactions, so you can validate in parallel. But if you do this in a naive manner, it's obvious that the security of the network suffers because the cost to attack each shard is proportionally smaller as there are less validators verifying the transactions.
> 
> The roll-up roadmap is a non-naive way to scale the network. It uses sophisticated cryptographic techniques to build compressed proofs of computation, that basically enable to scale the same blockspace by many orders of magnitude, as many transactions can be batched together and posted in a compressed form. It also enables parallel (sharded) execution, you can have multiple roll-ups each of which executes transactions in parallel, without sacrificing the security of the network.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/PhiMarHal, u/superphiz, and u/Tricky_Troll share their different takes on friend.tech</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15w1z93/daily_general_discussion_august_20_2023/jwz7chk/)

[u/PhiMarHal](https://reddit.com/u/PhiMarHal):

Every good ponzi, by lasting long enough, hits a moment of capitulation. At that point, initial haters are swayed by its resilience, and join in despite their misgivings.

If the ponzi is especially good, this moment is properly enhanced by an announcement. Lever capitulation into full-blown FOMO.

I believe we hit that moment yesterday with friend.tech. The Paradigm stuff, airdrop points. My timeline is filled with otherwise reasonable people hopping on board.

"But why, Phi, why do you call friend.tech a ponzi? I'm having fun. They're going to release more features. Social tokens are the future."

My own perspective comes down to simple math.

The price curve for shares is supply squared. Goes up fast, goes down faster. You get that high initial growth, tricking your brain into extrapolation, even though in reality it's pricing people out; then once sentiment turns and people dump, you'll get a catastrophic fall, with everyone and especially late buyers scrambling to get out.

Platform fees are 5% on every trade. Open up your calculator app and type $1000. Multiply it by 0.95. Then do that same operation again and again. See how much money you have left after 3 trades, 5 trades, 10 trades; see how much value is extracted from the userbase by the developers.

You add these two together, you have a recipe for a heavily negative sum game. The money is siphoned away from the system no matter what, a minimum of 10% (in + out), and more the longer you stay in and trade.

I'm a reckless gambler myself. I'm not going to tell you you can't have fun in a ponzi, I'm not going to talk to you about morality. But I would tell you this is one of those times where don't-put-any-money-you're-unwilling-to-lose should apply strongly. It will come crashing down, and there will be many more losers than winners; the math makes this inevitable. 

Any money you put in friend.tech is a greater's fool theory bet where the odds are stacked against you.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15w1z93/daily_general_discussion_august_20_2023/jx268js/)

[u/superphiz](https://reddit.com/u/superphiz):

In 2013 I was part of a local bitcorn group. We had this one member, "Tammy" [not his real name], who attended every meeting and always contributed to really insightful discussion. The thing was, Tammy never bought bitcorn or any of the altcoins that were springing up the time. He explained that if he never bought coins he could never get scammed. He prided himself on understanding the fundamentals of every coin, and he was very sharp at identifying potential weaknesses of different coins. But he never bought in. To this day, I'm still not sure he has every held crypto.

My point is that it's no fun to participate in crypto if you avoid new things. It's no fun to sit on the sidelines and point out flaws. I don't want anyone to blow their stack, and I'm very honest about what I believe are valuable tools, and what I think are fads, but it's OKAY to check out fads. Could you imagine still being unwilling to hold jpg NFTs because they're just pictures? Pretty much anyone who holds that view is still living in 2019.

So I urge EthFinance to relax a little bit, stop being so scared of things that are likely to be fads and just check them out with care and caution. I have a group of fad enthusiasts and we've explored three fads this month and all of them have been a ton of fun. 

Give yourself time to grow if you need it. Skip this one, no harm, but commit to sticking a pinky toe in the next thing just so you can enjoy the ride.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15wxpta/daily_general_discussion_august_21_2023/jx3duab/)

[u/Tricky_Troll](https://reddit.com/u/Tricky_Troll):

Not going to lie, I'm getting pretty sick of the nuance free takes about Friend.tech. It seems like everyone either convinced it is the future and super disruptive or a basically just a ponzi scheme. Can we please get some nuance in here?

>IQBellCurveWojakMeme.jpeg

**Low IQ end of the curve:** Woah I can buy shares in my favourite influencers! This is the future!!!11!!1!!!!

**Mid curve normie take:** "iT's jUsT a PonZi ScHemE"

**Big brain take:** "This is both an innovative platform and an app with major hurdles and design flaws to adoption. It has unique utility like token gated chat rooms which will almost certainly be valuable in the future on some kind of future platform but it might not be this one. Friend.tech has many weaknesses and in particular it uses a highly volatile uniswap V1/2 based curve for pricing of influencer shares. As a result prices fluctuate wildly and will leave many users with a sour taste in their mouth when they get dumped on. This is a big hurdle to mainstream adoption and the price dumps are why all the normies leave and talk shit about crypto in a bear market. 95% of people don't want to speculate on this shit. Furthermore, there is also an enormous 5% fee on all trades which quickly bleeds users of their investments if they trade regularly."

Edit: I agree with a lot of your takes in the replies, my point isn't that any one of them is wrong, just that your nuanced takes are what I have been wanting more of and less one sentence posts whining about it or shilling it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Fheredin is interested in a hypothetical decentralized Wikipedia and u/OkDragonfruit1929 has some great thoughts</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15wxpta/daily_general_discussion_august_21_2023/jx5ooyy/)

[u/Fheredin](https://reddit.com/u/Fheredin):

So...is anyone interested in brainstorming a decentralized alternative to Wikipedia?

If you aren't familiar, [Brian Lunduke just posted this video on Wikipedia's finances.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T23Be33G1II) 

TL;DR? Wikipedia's expenses are roughly a third of their revenues; the difference goes to "charities" which have some strange political ties. 

I wasn't born yesterday. A defacto information platform like Wikipedia donating 2/3rds of its revenue to political entities is going to end with Wikipedia itself censoring opinions to protect their donation streams, and perhaps to curry favor with politicians. 

Things get even worse when you consider Lunduke's previous financial investigation. Mozilla gets most of its revenue from--drumroll, please--Google. I swear, Big Tech has monetary incest problems which make FTX look solvent.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15wxpta/daily_general_discussion_august_21_2023/jx5q3za/)

[u/OkDragonfruit1929](https://reddit.com/u/OkDragonfruit1929):

Any Ethereum L2 based decentralized Wikipedia alternative should focus first and foremost on censorship resistance. Financial incentives are secondary.

Censorship resistance should be the top priority to prevent the platform from censoring opinions and information based on pressures from outside entities purchasing the right to edit articles. Without proper censorship resistance, the alternative Ethereum L2 based Wikipedia alternative will quickly fall into the same issues as Wikipedia, where donations and political ties influence what information is allowed or promoted on the platform.

Wikipedia donates 2/3 of its revenues to outside organizations, many with concerning political connections. This creates a dangerous incentive for Wikipedia to censor information to protect donation revenue streams or curry political favor. The power to control information is far too valuable enough as it is without adding the possiblity of profiting if some sort of cookie-cutter financial DeFi game is uesd and applied to a wikipedia alternative on an Ethereum L2.

If the alternative platform relies on tokenizing as a way to weight one user's edits over another, the incentives could lead to censorship and conflicts of interest around what information is allowed or promoted. Financial rewards or incentives for users should be secondary to creating a platform resistant to all forms of censorship and bias. Rewards based on "truthfulness" could easily turn into subjective censorship.

Any form of censorship, no matter how well-intentioned, can be exploited to silence dissenting opinions and shape narratives. Maintaining censorship resistance should be the highest priority.

Without proper incentives and protections, all platforms, even L2 Ethereum dApps, are vulnerable to becoming tools of censorship. The alternative must be designed from the ground up to resist this.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 is structuring the community made EthFinance Bull Case for Ethereum.</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15xvfqk/daily_general_discussion_august_22_2023/jx8xjmw/)

[As stated last Friday](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15uartw/comment/jwoy85h/), this week I have started to structure all of your feedback for a potential "EthFinance Bull Case for Ethereum" post, which could also be used for a short video. 


**Ethereum the network**

- No competition for decentralized blockspace
- Only credible neutral blockchain/ network
- Ethereum is green since Proof of Stake 
- Ethereum still number 1 for developers
- Ethereum is the only blockchain/ with multiple clients
- The EVM is lindy
- Ethereum is scaling via L2s / there is enough blockspace/ “infra” now / cost per tx will go down with 4844
- ETH (and Layer2) is home to native stablecoins
- ETH continues to attract big companies developing payment solutions (VISA/ PayPal) and even nation states introducing CBDCs (on EVM and not ETH?)


**Ether the asset**

- ETH as a triple point asset
- ETH as Store of Value
- ETH is needed for transactions plus collateral plus money
- ETH has a risk free yield via staking (narrative) 
- deflationary asset ("supply go down, number go up") // supply shock
- Multiple nation states and corporations buying and staking ETH to ensure the decentralization of the network
- only with ETH you can build a decentralized stablecoin?
- Demand from developed countries 


Some comments: 

1. These are obviously just bullets, so I'll add detailed thoughts once we all agree on the structure and I am not sure this is the best structure yet. For example you could add a third a third category with "Narratives" which could include the "ETH is green" or "Risk free yield" bullets. Also something like "Use Cases" probably could be its own category as well. Looking forward to your thoughts and potential changes you would like to see!
2. I have tried to write about Ethereum and ETH, so in a way that's not comparing it to any other network/ asset. I really liked [these](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15uartw/comment/jwpqf93/) statements made on Friday, but have rephrased them. 
3. I have added my own points, so some bullets are "new.
4. If you feel your points are not fully covered or inadequately worded in these bullets, feel free to drop a comment and suggest a change

Next steps (from my point of view, but also happy to receive feedback when it comes to the process!) would be to collect your feedback, change the structure/ reorganize all arguments, enhance every bullet or even split them to make sure everything is covered. After that I will start drafting short paragraphs for each point, but also encourage all of you to draft a bull case yourself or at least pick your favorite point(s) and draft a small text for those.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Set1Less shares some sad news for another Tornado Cash dev</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15yts52/daily_general_discussion_august_23_2023/jxfn9po/)

Tornado Cash founder arrested by FBI....

<https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1702>

God Speed brothers. We will pour a drink when Kim Jong takes your revenge

---

[u/cryptOwOcurrency](https://reddit.com/u/cryptOwOcurrency):

> The power and integrity of sanctions derive not only from OFAC’s ability to designate and add persons to the SDN List but also from OFAC’s willingness to remove persons from the SDN List consistent with the law. The ultimate goal of sanctions is not to punish but to bring about a positive change in behavior.

Lol. When does the Treasury think they will see "a positive change in behavior" on the part of the immutable EVM code that resides at 0xd90e2f?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/stevieraykatz shares a quiet win for the ecosystem</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15yts52/daily_general_discussion_august_23_2023/jxh4ziy/)

Three of the top 15 eth burning/gas consuming contracts on mainnet are L2s. That's such a quiet win for the scaling space and it's JUST beginning. 

-- This has been your daily dose of hopium

</details>
