---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-05-19
episode: 19
guest: DCinvestor
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13lliuv/daily_general_discussion_may_19_2023/jkr75ka/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yo0Mh4TLDXk
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/126878
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13lliuv/comment/jkqggnm/)

[u/Vinegar_Strokes__](https://reddit.com/u/Vinegar_Strokes__)

> Ethereum

[u/696_eth](https://reddit.com/u/696_eth)

> $1805

[u/nixorokish](https://reddit.com/u/nixorokish)

> 0.067

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13hy6ue/comment/jkabod8/)

*The Ether city,*

*Its client diversity,*

*Mutuality.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Set1Less</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13jryjf/daily_general_discussion_may_17_2023/jkja91o/)

Doots for yesterday:

- Ledger
- Ledger bad
- Ledger
- Ledger

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Spacesider gives an update on the queue</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13ivi8v/daily_general_discussion_may_16_2023/jkcpnrw/)

[So around this time last year I posted a daily update about the beacon chain queue.](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/v1ikyu/daily_general_discussion_may_31_2022/iampjzg/) 

So here we go again for round 2! 

Pending validators: Joining 50.3k, leaving <100

* It will take just under 26 days for the entry queue to clear
* In around 9 and a half days the entry/exit queue number will be increased from 1800 to 2025

---

Some extra stats for when I reference this post at a later time

Active validators - 572,820

Staked ether - 18,330,053

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Maleficent_Plankton does a deep-dive on ERC-20 vs BRC-20 tokens</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13edhzt/daily_general_discussion_may_11_2023/jjpilb7/)

##**What is the difference between a BRC-20 token and an ERC-20 token?**

Expanded from my comment in /r/ethereum 

####**TL;DR**:

BRC-20 is **completely different** than ERC-20. It has a similar name, which is very misleading because it works nothing like it.

Both are meant to be fungible.

* **ERC-20**:
  * A full smart contract with complete customizability (usually 8k-12k characters long).
  * It must include all the functions that dictate how the token works, so its code is 100x bigger than a BRC-20 token's code.
  * Each ERC-20 token can behave very differently depending on their contract code
* **BRC-20**:
  * A tiny JSON object (usually 100 characters long)
  * BRC-20 tokens are much more **standardized** and do not include any functional code
  * You can only customize 4 properties: Ticker symbol, max supply, # of decimals, and the mint limit

---

##**What is an ERC-20 token?**

An ERC-20 token requires a **complete smart contract** with a full set of code that describes how the token operates. 

All ERC-20 tokens must have these function names and parameters.

* function name() public view returns (string)
* function symbol() public view returns (string)
* function decimals() public view returns (uint8)
* function totalSupply() public view returns (uint256)
* function balanceOf(address \_owner) public view returns (uint256 balance)
* function transfer(address \_to, uint256 \_value) public returns (bool success)
* function transferFrom(address \_from, address \_to, uint256 \_value) public returns (bool success)
* function approve(address \_spender, uint256 \_value) public returns (bool success)
* function allowance(address \_owner, address \_spender) public view returns (uint256 remaining)
* event Transfer(address indexed \_from, address indexed \_to, uint256 \_value)
* event Approval(address indexed \_owner, address indexed \_spender, uint256 \_value)

Only their names and parameters must match. **A function's code does NOT have to match the description of its name**

I could make a valid (but scammy) ERC-20 token where the "**transfer**()" function actually mints tokens, and where the "**approve**()" function instead burns a large amount of your transferred Ether. And that would be technically valid as long as the code specifies it.

##**What is a BRC-20 token?**

First off ... documentation on the BRC-20 standard absolutely sucks: <https://domo-2.gitbook.io/brc-20-experiment/>

I thought it was a joke, but that's the full token standard documentation.

Some more info:

* <https://domo-2.gitbook.io/brc-20-experiment/examples>
* <https://thebitcoinmanual.com/articles/brc-20-tokens/>

BRC-20 is just a short JSON object (a simple data structure) and does not contain any functions. It's based on ordinal theory and relies on the ordinal nodes to operate on it and provide it with **standard** functions.

It only works with ordinal-compatible taproot addresses.

**Here is the standard format of a BRC-20 token**:

* **Protocol**: Specifies the type of ordinal transaction. Always "brc-20".
* **Operation** - One of 3 different operations
  * Deploy: Deploys the BRC-20 token
  * Mint: Mints new tokens as long as it's not past the max supply or mint limit
  * Transfer: Mints a transfer function
* **Ticker symbol**: A 4-letter ID
* **Max supply**
* **Mint limit**: Limit per ordinal transaction that users can mint themselves
* **Decimal precision**

This is what the entire ORDI token deployment looks like:

```
{ 
  "p": "brc-20",
  "op": "deploy",
  "tick": "ordi",
  "max": "21000000",
  "lim": "1000"
}
```

**Here is the format of a Transfer function**:

* **Protocol**: Specifies the type of ordinal transaction. Always "brc-20".
* **Operation**: Transfer
* **Ticker symbol**: A 4-letter ID
* **Amt**: The amount to transfer

To transfer, it takes 2 steps:

1. Inscribe the transfer function to yourself
1. Send the inscription from your wallet to the other address

Swaps require an off-chain 3rd-party to complete, so they're not safe at the moment. It remains to be seen if you can build trustless DeFi around BRC-20 tokens.

**Some other interesting facts about BRC-20 tokens**:

* BRC-20 tokens rely on ordinals and inscriptions to work. This uses the prunable witness section of a Bitcoin transaction that costs 4x fewer sats per byte.
* BRC-20 Tokens currently account for [**over half of all Bitcoin transactions**](https://dune.com/queries/2432967/3996835)
* BRC-20 tokens are **so small** (in terms of weight) that **Bitcoin TPS has actually [doubled over the past month](https://www.blockchain.com/explorer/charts/transactions-per-second)**. This is not due to more demand, but because the average transaction size has gone down (due to fewer batch transactions), so they can pack more Txs into each block.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptOwOcurrency breaks the news on finality issues and u/OkDragonfruit1929 adds details</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13edhzt/daily_general_discussion_may_11_2023/jjsf9hi/)

[u/cryptOwOcurrency](https://reddit.com/u/cryptOwOcurrency):

Epoch 200,553 only had 40% voting participation!

I can't wait to read the post-mortem for this one. What could it possibly have been?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13edhzt/daily_general_discussion_may_11_2023/jjsgk98/)

[u/OkDragonfruit1929](https://reddit.com/u/OkDragonfruit1929):

It wasn't catastrophic, but it easily could have been a serious, but recoverable, issue if it had persisted. Epoch 200,553 only had 40% voting participation, which means only 40% of validators selected at random for block creation were actively confirming new blocks. Normally, the participation rate should be much higher, so this could indicate a problem with the network.

Start of the problem: [https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200551](https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200551)

Peak of the problem: [https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200553](https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200553)

Recovery started: [https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200554](https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200554)

Normalization achieved: [https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200556](https://beaconcha.in/epoch/200556)

We need a thorough post-mortem before we can be sure everything is okay though, because a rogue event like this happening for no explainable reason would not be very confidence inducing.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary> u/superphiz updates on the loss of finality the other day, u/OkDragonfruit1929 gives an ELI5, and phiz follows up with more analysis</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13fbc6v/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2023/jjvgm9a/)

[u/superphiz](https://reddit.com/u/superphiz):

A tiny update on the loss of finality yesterday: The culprit still isn't clear.

Some people have suggested Prysm caused the issue because they were hit hard by lost attestations and high loads, but this is very likely a side-effect of the turbulence rather than a cause. [Terence](https://twitter.com/terencechain/status/1656789550948311042) described some optimizations they were making as a result of the turbulence, but that's not an admission of fault.

I initially threw shade on MEV-boost because of my distrust for that stack, but there's no evidence suggesting they are involved in any way. 

The investigation is ongoing and the outcomes will be published in a detailed postmortem.

[Terence just posted another update](https://twitter.com/terencechain/status/1657021042110631936), but keep in mind, that this isn't a finding of fault, they're just exploring the incident. 

Most clients (except Lighthouse) were hit hard by this, but Prysm stands out because they have a high representation of validators.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13fbc6v/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2023/jjvpqhz/)

[u/OkDragonfruit1929](https://reddit.com/u/OkDragonfruit1929):

> Terence just posted another update  
>  
> , but keep in mind, that this isn't a finding of fault, they're just exploring the incident.

Here's my best attempt at an ELI5:

CL clients were getting a lot of attestations (which are like votes or confirmations from other nodes) about older transactions that didn't include the latest updates. This is like getting a lot of mail about old news that doesn't include recent important events.

Because the nodes that sent these attestations didn't have all the information for the recent transactions, CL clients had to spend a lot of time and resources to catch up. This is similar to how you'd spend a lot of time and effort researching recent events if you only had old newspapers. This caused the CL clients to work too hard and run out of resources, leading to issues like the system slowing down or even crashing.

During this time, a small problem in the Prysm system (which likely exists in other clients as well) was found that made it use the wrong information when trying to organize transactions. It's like sorting mail into the wrong categories because you're using an outdated list.

The Prysm team is working on improvements to prevent these issues from happening again. They're improving the system's memory management, and they're going to implement similar logic which right now only exists in Lighthouse CL clients where they filter out unviable attestations (like disregarding old news that's no longer relevant). The Prysm dev team plans to release these improvements next week.
  
So, in summary, the Prysm nodes were overwhelmed with outdated information, which led to system issues and revealed a minor bug. The Prysm dev team is now working on fixes and improvements. I am hopeful other CL clients follow suit and implement similar fixes.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13fbc6v/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2023/jjwbiyx/)

[u/superphiz](https://reddit.com/u/superphiz):

Some analysis threads are starting to come in from the loss of finality event on 5/11/2023, I'll try to link them here as I become aware of them. (Feel free to share as well)

- [potuz analysis](https://twitter.com/potuz1/status/1657031082749861891)
- [rplust analysis](https://twitter.com/robplust/status/1657044364382846978)
- [preston vanloon](https://twitter.com/preston_vanloon/status/1657028959442202628)
- [terence](https://twitter.com/terencechain/status/1657021044643774474)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/wolfparking has a synopsis on the US House of Reps crypto meeting</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13fbc6v/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2023/jju7s0y/)

##Summary/Highlight of US House of Reps session: Future of Digital Assets. 

Pleasantly surprised by most of what was discussed. Almost all the guest speakers had excellent ideas and explanations in the discussion. However, each person was allocated only 5 min at a time, so it was somewhat limiting. Please excuse me if some of this is a little raw. It is a 3 hr meeting and I don't have the time atm to format it correctly due to my excessive fiat mining op (work).

**Intros of Committee and Guest Speakers:**

Mr Johnson: Must be a bipartisan effort for a promising tech/market. Conflict between securities and commodities laws. Most of the G20 countries are ahead of us. We want to be the leader in this tech/industry.


Ms Caraveo: Digital asset activity grows, but so does non-compliance. Any legislation requires increased funding of CFTC.


Mr Hill: Can this industry thrive here in the US? Many Democrats calling for common sense legislation for months (not just a partisan issue). Can't trust offshore exchanges (FTX), so we need to work on laws here for US exchanges. 


Mr McHenry: We want a collab of CFTC and SEC to make laws and close regulatory gaps to protect consumers.


**Guest speakers**


Durgee: I'm the only non-attorney here. Already there are conflicting laws against other existing laws for crypto from the SEC and CFTC. This is a developing tech innovation that happens to be a digital currency as well. Adoption at this stage is not a tech problem, it's a human conditioning issue. A 13 year old in their lifetime has grown up with BTC and only known a world with crypto in their life.


Mr Santori: Kraken is well established in the US and the world. Europe has more effective rules from tested principles unlike the US. Gaps in US have created litigation that doesn't protect consumers. Mandates needed to protect us: <https://www.youtube.com/live/gwJ1QAwP7UE?t=43m21s>


Mr Massad: Confusion about commodity/security classification of crypto worsens the gap problem. How can we apply Howey test without this info? We need to pass a compliance law directing CFTC and SEC (or SRO; self regulating agency) to create laws and enforce them, without rewriting commodities and securities laws. Regardless of your stance on crypto we need this framework to protect consumers.


Mr Blaugrand: If investors could have traded digital assets on an exchange that was regulated like the NY Stock exchange, FTX situation wouldn't have happened. We can use the established rules we already have and apply it to crypto with these 4 rules: <https://www.youtube.com/live/gwJ1QAwP7UE?t=58m34s>

Mr Steil (WI): We still have no path forward for regulation, even after Gensler's meeting with Congress. Congress is ready to do the job. How do we not miss out vs overseas? W/Shoenberger: Switzerland made it very clear to define security/commodities. It gave them legal security and clarity that allowed them to proceed successfully. This framework that they provided certainly provided the legal certainty to be headquartered there and to have legal clarity around the classification instantly. W/Durgee: The rest of the world has more stability and growth in every avenue of crypto. 3x as much investments vs the US in some markets.

Mr Lucas: US is great because we embrace innovatio. w/Santori: G20 markets are ahead of us and are sophisticated. Kraken is expanding there, but we can't deploy the same resources here in the US due to these regulatory gaps. Lucas: what SEC rules need altering for exchanges to succeed? W/Blaugrand: SEC needs an onramp with regulation so exchanges can grow in the US. They don't because of regulatory vagueness. W/Satori: Flexibility of crypto is a perk. Broker/dealer construct can interact directly with consumers. We could limit exchanges and even close down exchanges after hours.

**The negative:**

Lynch (Mass): Not regulatory ambiguity; it's mass non compliance with existing laws. Don't argue security vs commodities, we should instead focus on intermediaries (exchanges, lenders, and wallet users). SEC is clear, consistent, efficient, and prevails in every 140 cases. crypto industry has failed. No separate regulatory regime necessary for crypto. claimed that creating new legislation for digital assets seems “redundant and unnecessary” given that the financial system’s current securities laws have “sustained massive innovation in our financial system for decades."

Mr Casten: What return would I had if I invested in 12 cryptos during a time vs S&P (60% profit)? Loss 46% of investment, how is this a supposed way to close wealth inequality gap? W/Durgee: accredited vs credited access is important. Mr Casten: I'm happy to debate truth not lies. Everything stated here beginning to sound like SBF and FTX, what's the distinction? Sounds like you want to regulate crypto with the least funded organization.

Mr Sherman: Buttcoin mod? An ignorant person's lack of ability to learn anything new. Fossil garbage opinion. Uses term "crypto bro". questioned whether digital assets should even have a future in the United States. He referred to cryptocurrencies as a “hidden money system that diverts capital investment from useful industries, and whose announced purpose is to defeat sanctions and tax laws. 
Crypto bros make money literally by making money, and they’ve made over a trillion dollars. They’ll accuse the U.S. government of making money out of thin air. Maybe we do, but we’re the U.S. government."


**Threaten Web3 Anonymity:**

Mr Davidson (Chairman Housing subcommittee): Gensler's hotel California's regulation provides no path to exit/leave. Who should have the power of exit from intermediaries (power to have self custody)? w/Santori: Who is best placed to collect KYC info? Kraken is well paced to do that and doesn't require KYC for every transaction, but we could do that if required.

Dr Foster (IL): Estimates of 95% trades are fake or wash trades in derivatives. How can we have a regulated futures market with this fraud and manipulation? What alternative to KYC at all levels is there to avoid fraud? W/Satori: Kraken provides this as a portal. Foster: we can't stop BTC on the dark web with that. At a wallet level we must have mandatory monitoring with licensing like automobiles. Trusted digital identity from the government. W/Kulkin: CFTC had auth it could conduct surveillance under the rules and jurisdiction of the exchange thereby acting as an SRO in addition to the CFTC/NFA. 

**Conclusion** 

McHenry: Even if there is nothing of value in crypto, you would still need enforceable rights and protections already found in regulations and laws in the US.  Must come together in bipartisan manner to protect investors. 

5 days for additional legislation questions and responses granted from the panel. Plans for another hearing this month made. 

Last month, McHenry said he expects that the President will have signed some piece of crypto legislation into law within the next 12 months.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/T0Bii starts a discussion about different client pairs and the finality issues</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13g7s03/daily_general_discussion_may_13_2023/jjzailv/)

Anyone else here whose validators had no problems during the finality issues?   

What clients are you running?  

What are your hardware specs?  

I missed an average of 1 attestation per validator that day and my inclusion distance was around 0-1 as well. I'm running Nethermind/Nimbus.   

But I saw a big increase in CPU and bandwidth use, between 2 and 3x of the usual average, spikes even higher.  

That's not a problem for my staking machine, but if others had similar spikes, I can totally see why many had issues.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade comments on the communication between EVMavericks and EthFinance and u/juxtanotherposition shares some notes from EVMavericks oDAO meeting</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13h32x6/daily_general_discussion_may_14_2023/jk3rlbf/)

[u/Ethical-trade](https://reddit.com/u/Ethical-trade):

Respectful criticism:

I'm a bit disappointed to see that despite the idea of the the ManeNet DAO joining Rocket Pool's oDAO having emerged from r/ethfinance and having received [great support](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/135bq9m/daily_general_discussion_may_2_2023/jijszul/?context=3) from r/ethfinance, all of the conversation has now moved over to [Discord](https://discord.com/channels/963992696387694592/1104380534253158470).

I realize that this is a very specific topic and most of the conversation shouldn't happen in r/ethfinance. But it would still be great to discuss ideas in this sub too when needed, and keep the entire community informed of the latest news.

For example, did you know that there's a proposal being drafted that has been in the making for a week? Or that a dedicated meeting happened on Friday?

Like many others I don't like Discord, I find it messy and a pain to follow so I don't use it. Maybe I'm just too old for the "chat" format.

Would it be possible for one of you Discord guys to keep us informed in here from time to time? I'm sure many here would love to be kept in the loop and even contribute.

r/ethfinance gave birth to the ManeNet DAO after all, and all EVMavericks were Ethfinancers before becoming lions.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13hy6ue/daily_general_discussion_may_15_2023/jkb3lme/)

[u/juxtanotherposition](https://reddit.com/u/juxtanotherposition):

In the spirit of sharing more from EVM Discord to r/ethfinance and about the example [that brought it up](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13h32x6/daily_general_discussion_may_14_2023/jk3rlbf/), I shared my notes from the 1st Discord Call about the oDAO on Discord, but haven't shared them here yet:

>I was taking notes for myself and I've put that into Pastebin (unlisted) ([https://pastebin.com/nrmwEyGg](https://pastebin.com/nrmwEyGg)). I'm sure there are lots of errors, incomplete thoughts, and typos.

Also, I tend to ignore Discord except for something I'm very interested in (like the oDAO). So I sympathize with the comment poster. As an EVM holder, I'm loyal to the dailies, but not the Discord. So I miss some EVM things when they don't make it back here. h/t u/Ethical-trade

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Spacesider shares how his node dealt with the beacon chain finality issues</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13hy6ue/daily_general_discussion_may_15_2023/jk7f7vc/)

So while I was gone and there was all that drama with the beacon chain, my Teku node got caught up in it and fatally crashed and was completely offline.

However.... I run a second Ethereum "stack" with Lighthouse as the consensus client, which the validator process switched over to and was able to carry on with no downtime like nothing even happened.

I was able to recover the Teku node in my own time, and once it was back in sync the validator process automatically switched back over to it as the primary endpoint.

Client diversity is awesome!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/maninthecryptosuit explains the big Ledger drama</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13ivi8v/daily_general_discussion_may_16_2023/jkc5s70/)

Just found this confirmation:

[Ledger co-founder Nicolas Bacca confirms the seed phrase leaves the device (may only be applicable to Nano X.)](https://reddit.com/r/ledgerwallet/comments/13itm7u/-/jkbyyfp)

> The device sends encrypted shards of your seed to different companies if you decide to use the service. You can of course still choose to backup it yourself.

[But 2 days ago the same co-founder said:](https://reddit.com/r/ledgerwallet/comments/13gs0xn/-/jk34kcn)

> Your keys are always stored on your device and never leave it

That's what Ledger has been claiming for years as well. 

**If we assume the chap wasn't lying 2 days ago, that means the new firmware ( [one screenshot shows 2.2.1 for Nano X](https://reddit.com/r/ledgerwallet/comments/13iocfk/so_even_if_i_dont_use_this_service_my_ledger_nano/) ) that just rolled out activates the backdoor "ability" to extract the seed.** 

More info: [Wired article](https://www.wired.co.uk/article/ftx-crypto-investors-hardware-wallets) says:

>Ledger is preparing to launch a new service called Ledger Recover that splits a wallet recovery phrase—basically, a human-readable form of the private key—into three encrypted shards and distributes them to three custodians: Ledger, crypto custody firm Coincover, and code escrow company EscrowTech.  If somebody loses their recovery phrase, two of the three shards can be combined—pending an ID check—to regain access to the locked funds. Essentially, Ledger Recover is an additional safety net; for the price of $9.99 a month, it takes the jeopardy out of crypto’s version of stuffing dollars under the mattress. It’ll be available in the UK, EU, US, and Canada and come to other territories later in the year.

[Ledger CEO Tweeted it out as well. ](https://twitter.com/_pgauthier/status/1653463160370675730)

Why this is an issue - even if Ledger now cancels their new seed cloud backup service (because backlash), and says they will never make a firmware update use this hitherto unannounced "ability", the mere presence of this backdoor means that bad actors/governments may be interested in it. I guess this is what we get for trusting a company that kept its software closed-source.

My next steps:

- Immediately stop using Ledger Live
- No more firmware updates
- Hope and pray that my ancient Nano S devices didn't have this backdoor

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/FriedChickenTrailer compares the best, most secure Ledger alternatives</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13ivi8v/daily_general_discussion_may_16_2023/jkcmxpr/)

With ledger (potentially) going full retard again, I'm updating myself on what hardware wallets are available in the market right now. Looking forward to if anyone has other suggestions, additions or corrections to my high-level assessments below.

I've been using this list for discovery (trying to narrow down the list of 387 wallets): <https://walletscrutiny.com/?verdict=reproducible&platform=hardware>

There is an insane amount of options in the market, but very few can fit these requirements;

- open source everything, including firmware and hardware
- uses a secure enclave for cryptography (extremely hard to get the private key material out of the device, [apparently controversial given their closed nature](https://blog.trezor.io/introducing-tropic-square-why-transparency-matters-a895dab12dd3))
- has a display that shows information about what you're signing (the bigger the better)
- At the very least supports both EVM chains and bitcoin-type chains (bonus for other chains and other curves, e.g. edwards)
- reproducible firmware builds, i.e. you can tell that the firmware blob matches the published code

I've discarded a bunch of products (e.g. ngrave) that have little to no information about their device or the software that runs on it. 

What I've found that (superficially) gets closest to the requirements (in no particular order);

#### trezor

- I have tried the trezor one, but the hardware died a few years ago
- open source [firmware](https://github.com/trezor/trezor-firmware), [hardware](https://github.com/trezor/trezor-hardware)
- does not use a secure enclave
- reproducible builds
- has a display that shows information about what you're signing
- been around for ages so its been battle-tested (plenty of fixed side-channels issues etc) and its weaknesses are somewhat well understood (limited physical security etc)
- works with BTC/EVM/Cryptonote chains and others

#### keystone

- open source [firmware](https://github.com/KeystoneHQ/keystone-se-firmware)
- open source [hardware](https://github.com/KeystoneHQ/Keystone-developer-hub/tree/main/hardware)
- large display
- secure element
- unclear if builds are reproducible
- supports btc/evm chains and a ton of other more oddball stuff like cardano, tezos etc
- never heard of it before today, no idea how battle-tested it is

#### cypherock 

- never tried
- open source [firmware](https://github.com/Cypherock/x1_wallet_firmware)
- open source hardware
- no display!
- uses secure enclave (smart cards)
- reproducible builds
- pretty new, haven't seen anyone take it apart/try to break it yet

#### Bitbox02

- never tried
- open source [firmware](https://github.com/digitalbitbox/bitbox02-firmware)
- open source [hardware](https://github.com/digitalbitbox/bitbox02-firmware#hardware-docs)
- small display, displays some information about what you're signing
- uses secure enclave AFAICT (ATECC608B)
- reproducible builds
- supports btc/evm chains
- been around for a while, has had a few vulnerabilities (e.g. <https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2019-18673>)

#### keepkey

- never tried
- open source [firmware](https://github.com/keepkey/keepkey-firmware), hardware
- reproducible builds(?)
- small display showing information about what you're signing
- trezor clone?
- supports BTC, ETH, LTC, DOGE (and a few more similar coins)
- been around a long time, has had multiple vulnerabilities (e.g. <https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2022-30330>)


#### Grid+ Lattice1 (closed source)

- **closed source firmware, hardware**
- I have one of these, the UX is OK, but the device itself is huge
- large display, detailed transaction information including native smart contract support (when ABI is available)
- tamper-resistant
- uses secure enclave (in device, and smart cards)
- no reproducible builds as its closed source
- pretty new, haven't seen anyone take it apart/try to break it yet, but the described design seems sensible

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi discusses DAO delegation and reminds us of our duties!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13jryjf/daily_general_discussion_may_17_2023/jkhzazl/)

To those who own governance tokens / participate in governance, you should check out Tally's [governance-week](https://delegationweek.com/). They are coordinating with a bunch of DAOs to encourage people to delegate or periodically revisit your delegated tokens. A great place for ethfinancers to start is looking at [https://dailydoots.com/#delegates](https://dailydoots.com/#delegates) to find out who on this forum is a delegate. 

The HOP bridge protocol is one of the partners and will be providing some funds from the grant pool to support Tally on this project. The exact details on how they will incentivize is not finalized yet - initial discussions where subsiding gas fees, but looks like it might be shifting to a distribution to those who participate ([the forum discussion is here](https://forum.hop.exchange/t/grant-proposal-delegation-week/878/11)). Either way, I'm happy to see HOP providing support!

That all said, whatever governance token you own please consider usings this week as a chance to re-visit your delegated tokens. It's an important step for the health of a DAO, as set it and forget delegating can stagnate a DAO's leadership and create a barrier to entry for new delegates to join in. And if you are looking to become a delegate this may be a great opportunity to jump in!

</details>
