---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-07-14
episode: 27
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14z6vmh/daily_general_discussion_july_14_2023/jrwzm00
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvPp5ii6wmI
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/143298
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14z6vmh/comment/jrwch9a/)

[u/Etereve](https://reddit.com/u/Etereve)

> Ethereum

[u/https://reddit.com/user/wolfparking/](https://reddit.com/u/https://reddit.com/user/wolfparking/)

> $2007

[u/696_eth](https://reddit.com/u/696_eth)

> 0.064

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14uphdc/daily_general_discussion_july_9_2023/jrbf0u8/)

*Recession looming,*

*Interest rates still glooming,*

*Ether keeps blooming.*


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>The Queue: u/Spacesider</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14z6vmh/comment/jrwc98f/)

Your daily beacon chain dose.

Pending validators: Joining 82.2k, leaving \~0

* Entry queue +500 from yesterday's number
* It will take around 35 and a half days for the entry queue to clear
* In around 25 days the amount of daily validators that can both enter or exit will be increased from 2,250 to 2,475.

*These figures are based on the entry and exit queue at the time of posting*

This can also be tracked via <https://validatorqueue.com/>

**Once again, I am off camping - See you all in the few days!**

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: ArcadesOfAntiquity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14xehxp/comment/jrrk4s1/)

`> be me`

`> open Chrome`

`> "oh, metamask has updated"`

`> new interface layout, looks significantly less janky`

`> go to copy my account address so I can paste it into some web3 site`

`> the copy address function doesn't work now`

`> "okay, I'll just open the explorer page and copy the address there"`

`> "oh, metamask removed the explorer page link and replaced it with a link to its own portfolio app, which doesn't display the address by default and just asks me to connect my wallet"`

seriously, the metamask team seems to possess a special kind of stupid 

I've put it off for too long... my new task is to abandon metamask completely

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll asks for others' experiences after some recent ChatGPT developments</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14ryifk/daily_general_discussion_july_6_2023/jqvk828/)

<https://reddit.com/r/ChatGPT/comments/14ruui2/i_use_chatgpt_for_hours_everyday_and_can_say_100/>

> I use chatGPT for hours everyday and can say 100% it's been nerfed over the last month or so. As an example it can't solve the same types of css problems that it could before. Imagine if you were talking to someone everyday and their iq suddenly dropped 20%, you'd notice. People are noticing.

> A few general examples are an inability to do basic css anymore, and the copy it writes is so obviously written by a bot, whereas before it could do both really easily. To the people that will say you've gotten lazy and write bad prompts now, I make basic marketing websites for a living, i literally reuse the same prompts over and over, on the same topics, and it's performance at the same tasks has markedly decreased, still collecting the same 20 dollars from me every month though!

Is this the beginning of AI's descent into the trough of disillusionment just like 2018 crypto? Whether it be due to OpenAI making changes for safety or cost savings, or increasing pollution of the data set with AI generated data leading to a kind of AI inbreeding, it's hard to say what's causing it but I'd love to hear if others have also noticed the same thing.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptOwOcurrency answers some staking questions</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14tuakx/daily_general_discussion_july_8_2023/jr6rp8l/)

Here's an expanded and fixed version that should help clarify.

1. One validator is randomly assigned to propose during a particular 12-second slot.
2. This validator proposes a block, either generated by them or a relay. (If they don't propose a block, no one else gets to. The slot is "missed" with no block in it. Because there is only one validator assigned to each slot, there can never be 2 competing blocks. If a single validator proposes more than one block during their assigned slot, they are slashed.)
3. All nodes, both staking and non-staking, verify for themselves that the block is valid. After verification, they pass the block on to yet more nodes, and so on through the gossip network until every node on the network has a copy of the block.
4. Other validators attest the block is valid. These votes are counted/aggregated by yet other validators. The block reaches 2/3 votes, and is finalized. These messages echo back through the network, updating staking and non-staking nodes alike as to what the most recent finalized block is.

With this in mind, please rephrase any additional questions you have, and I can do the best to help answer them!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Set1Less covers a couple of the newer web 3 wallets</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14tuakx/daily_general_discussion_july_8_2023/jr60e02/)

Re-installed Frame wallet to give it a spin, vs my main wallet now Rabby extension. Using both via a Ledger HW Wallet. Embarked on this mainly since another user had mentioned that Rabby was tracking wallet installs, so I wanted to explore another wallet that didnt track users, but still offered the same functions. 

As compared with an earlier install, now Frame seems to connect well with most apps. However it still lacks a lot of features . 

Rabby is still way more functional for someone like me who makes many txn every day, on multiple chains/L2s. From wallet security perspective, it has inbuilt transaction simulation results which show the changes to your wallet. (example for a dex swap txn it would show 0.1 eth out, 185 usdc in etc...) So you can visualize exactly what your transaction is doing before approving it. Rabby also has many other security features like warnings when interacting with a new contract for the first time, approval limit warnings, inbuilt approval revoke interface etc. Compared to this, Frame seems rather bare bones

On the downside Rabby is clearly tracking users via an identifier number given to each install of the extension, without any opt out. As reported by u/RooftopPortaPotty

The hunt for the best wallet continues. If Frame can add these security features, it would beat Rabby hands down for me

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard educates us on the tragedy of the commons</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14uphdc/daily_general_discussion_july_9_2023/jr8s6ig/)

Today I'd like to talk about another tool from [Moloch's Toolbox](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14sx3ji/daily_general_discussion_july_7_2023/jr21wrm/). This one is like the inverse of first-mover disadvantage and it's probably the best known pattern of coordination failure. Of course I'm talking about [Tragedy of the Commons](https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/tragedy-of-the-commons-impact-on-sustainability-issues). Formally, there is a known Pareto Optimum but each actor is free to defect from that strategy and personally profit by doing so at the expense of all other actors. Common outcomes from this coordination failure are things like nature ecosystem collapses from activities like overfishing, market collapses from raced selling into a price inelastic market, and famine.

By this definition, there are many examples of things that are not commonly considered "Commons" that nevertheless fall into this category of problem such as the famous Prisoner's Dilemma. The "commons" in this case is reduced jail time. In this scenario each actor is free to defect from the optimal solution and snitch to the police and reduce their personal prison time while increasing the total prison time. The net result is all actors inevitably defect and the system collapses to the worst possible value (what is the antonym of Pareto optimum called?).

To correct the incentives you have to change the local calculus of each actor. Recognizing that each actor is likely to locally optimize, you have to add external incentives for complying or external penalties for defecting from the Pareto Optimum. Typical solutions to this problem resemble [fail-deadly](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fail-deadly) deterrence systems which admittedly isn't a source of optimism for humanity. A less seemingly insane variation of this requires that all actors submit to an common arbiter such as a government that makes defecting illegal but this solution breaks down when they don't share a nationality.

Let's look at fixing the prisoner's dilemma as an example. If, prior to the crime, each criminal had to put up a hostage then their local optimum is to risk the longer prison sentence to protect their hostage. They would be willing to do this because they also know this is true of the criminal in the other room so they can rest assured that the other criminal will also comply rather than defect. After they get out of prison with their minimum sentences they can have their hostage back so it ultimately cost them nothing to enter this agreement (the hostage experience notwithstanding).

What I like about this solution is that it can be applied as a layer on top of existing systems without having to otherwise change those systems. For example, the criminals can enter this agreement without changing the dynamics between the criminals and the police and can do so without the consent of the police.

The example above breaks down in two situations:

1) There are actors outside the contract system. In the prisoner's dilemma, what do the criminals do to secure the cooperation of an outside witness? How do you prevent overfishing from countries that refuse to pass or enforce laws preventing ships from their nation from overfishing?

2) The actors have nothing to use as a hostage.

To address the first case, the hostage you stake has to be something you can weaponize. For example, the criminals could stake a large sum of capital instead of a loved one. As long as the stake can be used to apply negative incentives against external actors somehow, you can use it to fix local incentives. For example, the criminals could make a conditional assassination contract against any witnesses and leak the information about this contract to the witness before they speak to the police or testify in court. This solution can be combined with a dead man's switch so no active actions are required by the criminals to enforce it.

In the second case, you have to find some kind of negative outcome to enforce. The most common stake-of-last-resort example is the safety or life of the defector. For example, in The Dark Knight, The Joker made each criminal literally implant bombs into themselves. Assuming we can bootstrap reputation systems, reputation is a much saner collateral for less extreme use cases. That's basically all your credit score is when Visa grants you a credit line without collateral. I like the idea of using reputation collateral better than having to implant oracle controlled bombs into everyone before we would have a chance at fighting climate change in any case.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/wolfparking shares their RocketPool staking experience</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14uphdc/daily_general_discussion_july_9_2023/jrd0z9e/)

What a day! 

After waiting 49 days in the queues (Rocketpool and then Beaconchain) my mini-8s were scheduled to go active online at 1am this morning. During the entire day I checked my logs several times and felt confident everything looked good to go. Set an alarm and I slept right through it. Woke up 2 hours later and logged in to see how things looked. Failure. No attestations. Losing Eth. Fortunately, the friendly people in the Rocketpool discord immediately identified the problem and I was up and running  within an hour. Fast forward to just a bit ago and I got a proposal! Not a huge amount, but still my APR is at 42% on one of my minis.  Day 1! So tired, but gawdamn I feel like I've won a little lottery!

Anyway, no one really here to share this with, except you fantastic people!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/dentonnn just got hired with a bonus!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14vk91l/daily_general_discussion_july_10_2023/jrdk0ad/)

Crazy update! I saw an open position on crypto-twitter and messaged for shits and giggles. Got an interview off it, hit off really well...and told the interviewer I am a node operator, read ethfinance, fan of the green pill, and watch youtube videos of MEV.

Few days later...received an offer with a 20% pay rise, a fully remote role,  working on blockchain infrastructure!

Just wanna let you all know that I am so grateful for all of you! I absolutely would not have gotten the job without learning from you all, so thank you for this awesome community!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dray11 is finally releasing their new NFT project!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14vk91l/daily_general_discussion_july_10_2023/jrdnwk8/)

Just to let everyone know, following on from my [initial post](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14l05iz/daily_general_discussion_june_28_2023/jpuvrg8/) the other week, the mint is now live! 

All mint proceeds and any subsequent royalties will be donated to charity, which will be decided on by the holders.

Worked super hard on the this for the last few months so just hoping all that effort translates into a good amount being raised and donated to charity

Appreciate anyone who's able to help

**Mint here**:

<https://www.autominter.com/mint/649c1151c70555000ed2ad58>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/T0Bii explains MEV for those who are out of the loop</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14whcr5/daily_general_discussion_july_11_2023/jrkw161/)

Not sure if trolling since I've seen you around for a while, but just in case someone comes around with no idea of MEV:  

MEV = maximum extractable value is the reward a block builder can get by ordering transactions in a way that profit them.   

Example: Someone makes a buy transaction on uniswap with up to 5% allowed slippage (bad idea). A bot will see this and create two further transactions. One to buy the same token (increases the price) and one to sell it again.  

The the bot will submit a transaction bundle containing their buy transaction (increasing price), the victims buy transaction (increasing price) and their sell transaction (profiting from increased price) in this exact order.  

This is called a sandwich attack and will earn them some money. 

But other bots will be doing the same thing, so in order to actually be the one included in the block, they'll also promise some money to whoever builds the block. 

The money extracted by the bot and the reward for the validator is called MEV.  

There are a lot of different kinds of MEV. Bad MEV like sandwich attacks, "good" MEV like DEX arbitrage which result in efficient markets.   

In order to profit from MEV you could a) build a MEV bot (very very high effort) b) solo stake ETH (reasonable effort, high capital investment), buy LSDs like rETH.  

This is very simplified, there are a lot of nuances around MEV. Feel free to research proposer-builder separation (PBS) and flashbots.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Yeopaa covers a major change in Google Play store policy regarding NFTs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14xehxp/daily_general_discussion_july_12_2023/jroz893/)

Google Play Changes Policy on Tokenized Digital Assets, Allowing NFTs in Apps and Games

<https://www.coindesk.com/web3/2023/07/12/google-play-changes-policy-on-tokenized-digital-assets-allowing-nfts-in-apps-and-games/>

</details>
