---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-07-28
episode: 28
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15bntnh/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2023/jtsej9m
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nO3cctyZV50
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/145873
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15bntnh/comment/jtrk2yb/)

[u/wolfparking](https://reddit.com/u/wolfparking)

> Ethereum

[u/UgotTrisomy21](https://reddit.com/u/UgotTrisomy21)

> $1864

[u/696_eth](https://reddit.com/u/696_eth)

> 0.063

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1580pwg/comment/jtawj3h/)

*zk washing spy,*

*Scan the center of your eye,*

*Earn until you cry.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>The Queue: u/Spacesider</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/15bntnh/comment/jtrk1yp/)

Your daily beacon chain dose.

Active validators: 693,231 (+2,032)

Pending validators: Joining 80.9k, leaving \~0

* Entry queue +300 from yesterday's number
* It will take just under 34 days for the entry queue to clear
* In just over 12 days the amount of daily validators that can both enter or exit will be increased from 2,250 to 2,475.

*These figures are based on the entry and exit queue at the time of posting*

This can also be tracked via <https://validatorqueue.com/>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: cryptOwOcurrency</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/158y8lm/daily_general_discussion_july_25_2023/jteburl/)

Congratulations Cardano for releasing their first DEX today! You can now swap tokens without full reliance on a third party.

<https://np.reddit.com/r/cardano/comments/15976z4/spectrum_finance_cardanos_first_fully_open_source/jtdoqgs/>

Creating this DEX appears to be the culmination of years of hard research, study, and academic achievement. It pays to take your time to do things right the first time without rushing.

Sometimes I wish we had DEXes on Ethereum. They sound like a really neat technology.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog discusses Gnosis chain's recent developments and future roadmap</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/154hewp/daily_general_discussion_july_20_2023/jspneze/)

[u/shiftly](https://reddit.com/u/shiftly) linked to a [gnosis chain talk yesterday by Frederieke Ernst](https://reddit.com/comments/153l7fp/comment/jsnazwt), a gnosis co-founder were she talked about L2s, Rollups and Sidechains. I watched it on livestream yesterday as I am generally interested in the gnosis ecosystem and their chain. Shiftly mentioned being surprised by the vision of gnosis chain as they have thought it being more like an incentiviced testnet. 

I am financially and technically invested by being a solo validator on gnosis chain. So take any positive sentiment I have with a grain of salt. The history of gnosis chain is quite an interesting one. It was born as xdai chain as one of the earlier EVM compatible alt L1 chains. The interesting thing they did was not having their own coin, but using xDAI, bridged DAI, as the base token to pay for gas. No own token meant no speculative frenzy in the last bull run. They developed rather quietly the only bigger deal they made was with POAP in 2020, that is why all our POAPs life on there now. And thanks to xDAI chain POAPs can often be minted for free as the gas costs are pretty negligible and are being paid by POAP. I still remember the pre xDAI chain POAPs which sometimes would have cost me $50 to mint.

In Summer 2021 Gnosis got interested in xDAI chain and took them over. xDAI chain rebranded to Gnosis chain. They started changing the consensus layer from a more permissioned set to a permissionless Ethereum approach. For this they started using the GNO token as a mandatory staking token. One validator costs 1 GNO, which is about $120. Much cheaper than Ethereum. There are about 130000 validators on Gnosis chain, about 6 times less than on Ethereum, but the economic security is obviously much lower due to only 1 GNO being staked per validator compared to 32 ETH for a single Ethereum validator. There are some large staking as a service providers, but nevertheless there are a substantial number of solo stakers, making the gnosis chain pretty decentralized. Unfortunately, I do not have any statistics available, as the websites I used before are defunct since a few months ago.

Now to the vision. The following description is how I understand it and is from public sources I read over the last 2 years. Generally, I think it is very hard for any alternative L1 to have a value proposition as Rollups most probably will eat their lunch sooner or later. At the same time the Gnosis founders have been in the crypto space for so long, I assume they know what they are doing and how hard it is to have a value proposition. At first, their idea was for Gnosis chain to be like an incentivized testnet, like Kusama is to Polkadot. The idea was to first test hard forks on Gnosis chain and then deploy to mainnet. Reality threw a wrench in that idea, the merge on Gnosis chain was a few months after the Ethereum merge, same with the shapella hard fork which will be in 2 weeks on Gnosis chain. 

This brings me to the talk linked by u/shiftly yesterday, which describes the new vision I have not seen described before. I definitely have seen more critical talks by Gnosis chain people aginst rollups in the last few months but did not really know why. The Gnosis team pivoted Gnosis chain to being more of Cosmos like ecosystem around Ethereum. They build a trustless bridge to and from Ethereum. And also gnosis pay will make jumping from the various chains as simple and trustless as possible.

Will it work out? I have no idea. Rollups for me have been the big disappointment of 2021 and 2022 and still are far away from the final version of being as trustless and decentralized. On the other hand Optimism and Arbitrum have become pretty reliable for everyday use and various ZK rollups are coming out left and right. Nevertheless, for me Gnosis chain is a hedge against the Rollup vision not working out as fast as necessary. Gnosis chain might be able to get some more usage in the coming years. Will Gnosis chain end up as a rollup on Ethereum? Maybe. But even then, due to the decentralized validator base, they might have a headstart for sequencer decentralization compared to othe rollups which first have to achieve that.

Tldr: Gnosis chain, formerly known as xDAI chain, pivoted in the last few months to a more Cosmos like vision for the Ethereum space consisting of EVM chains connected to each other by trustless bridges. Will it work out? Who knows.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi has some delegate updates on Arbitrum and HOP</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/155dxre/daily_general_discussion_july_21_2023/jsxszc5/)

Little Arbitrum DAO update for everyone as a delegate. I'm assuming ARB links are still shadow-banned, but want to get the picture across regardless.

There has been push over the last month or so to get some type of grants framework started with the DAO. Two of the big proposals were Plurality Labs and Questbook. 

Plurarlity Labs is looking to start a grants program over multiple phases. Initially running the program, but with an end goal of phasing themselves out once a way to run grants on-chain is solved. I voted "For" this proposal ([Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xa0e14b85197d73e825ac30f72b7d895d644ed06159a32a578f4efe47a2739b2f)) and it has narrowly passed. The DAO has been slow to start and somewhat directionless, so I'm hoping this will help with that. While grants will be handed out with this project, the scope is more about the big picture process that develops over the long term.

Questbook was originally tied in with Plurality Labs, but split off into it's own request. It has a similar goal - a method to run grant programs - albeit with a more focused approach. They have a system they have implemented with other projects they are looking to bring to the ARB DAO. I have been, I guess, 'sponsoring (?)' Questbook as I have been working with them to post the Snapshot / Tally votes. Snapshop has passed ([Snapshot](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xe07fb357b2b40e042ca58a36a1534afc33a1d313d4781ac433536bc884fc3c65)) and the Tally Vote ([Tally](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/52789605232046584393223454610845077119190920888046802640362214067679574612119)) has just started up. I've voted "For" on this, as once again I think the grant projects are good for the space and like to see different ideas take a stab at growing the Aribtrum space. Having talked to the people there it seems like a good project!

An additional note. If Questbook passes, keep an eye out if you want to get involved. There will be a two week window where knowledgably crypto-ians can apply to be a Domain Allocator. Essentially, you would take over 1 of 4 target grant domains (Gaming / Developer Tooling on NOVA / New Protocol Ideas / Education, Community Growth and Events) to help decide if projects can get grant money. It is a paid role, so something to think about if your into that. There are details in the votes.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/155dxre/daily_general_discussion_july_21_2023/jsxujju/)

It's been a minute since I made any HOP updates too! Not too much since I last posted, a lot of housekeeping votes (multisig refills, sybil hunter airdrops). Of note tho:

* Liquidity discussions continued with a [Temperature Check](https://snapshot.org/#/hop.eth/proposal/0x28511fdf18dcb40636326bab1557211216103cd675bcc1e64270b36195096717) on providing liquidity for the HOP token. Ultimately 'failed' to no change. It is a small-cap so a lot of debate on how much of it is simply the marketcap. Regardless, as a temperature check I did vote in favor of incentivizing HOP/ETH. I honestly don't lean one way or the other on this type of thing. I do see the value and think slippage is high, but I also see the argument against throwing money after market forces of a low-cap. I voted in favor as a signal I'm open to the discussion.
* The minimum delegate threshold to get pay-outs for contributing to the DAO was voted down to 30,000 HOP with [HIP-35](https://snapshot.org/#/hop.eth/proposal/0xab8b3b1c7e1445a2454e140281f13840519eef32b418d936773cdb9d74008a92). I voted for 30,000 out of the options (30k, 40k, 50k, no change). I'd like to see more voices join, so we are hoping lowering the threshold might attract more activity. We shall see!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu is drumming up support for getting Lenster to add Reddit-like threads and mod tools</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/156an5v/daily_general_discussion_july_22_2023/jt2jrik/)

[https://lenster.xyz/posts/0x0d-0x03ea-DA-27346e91](https://lenster.xyz/posts/0x0d-0x03ea-DA-27346e91)

> What feature do you want if u/lenster have communities 👥?

If you have an account it'd be great to show support for reddit-like threads and mod tools. You probably won't be able to comment on this post but there's a few comments that say something similar that you can like to give a sentiment boost such as this one: [https://lenster.xyz/posts/0x1d6e-0x092a-DA-0563fbdf](https://lenster.xyz/posts/0x1d6e-0x092a-DA-0563fbdf)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Syentist explains a potential use case to send ETH and OP skyward</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1580pwg/daily_general_discussion_july_24_2023/jt7zsc9/)

[Worldcoin goes live](https://twitter.com/worldcoin/status/1683372181428793344) as a member of the Superchain today. 

Im not fully sold on an eye ball scanning billionaire, but it's undeniable that Sam Altman is one of the hottest names in tech at the moment, and him using a very ethereum-centric product for a digital identity solution coupled to a financial system (literally what we have been harping about for years) is pretty...interesting. For eg they are not just simply using the OP Superchain, they are even [spending effort on shipping 4844 along with Base](https://worldcoin.org/blog/announcements/worldcoin-completes-migration-op-mainnet)

It's also screamingly obvious that online presence (social media, financial txs etc) need to be tied to some form of identity to prevent bot spam, and even worse, AI powered bot spam. So if this triggers a gradual "aha" moment among the tech zeitgeist, that decentralised and interconnected identity + social media + financial systems running on Ethereum are a very elegant solution to the problems of today...it could be unbelievably bullish for ETH and OP. 

Or it could be one of those retrospectively ridiculous ideas which were born and died in the depths of bear markets. We shall see soon enough.

Edit: [big V dropped a blog post on biometric proof of person hood today!](https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2023/07/24/biometric.html). Worldcoin team is listed in the acknowledgement line so some synchrony there. Reading through it, I'm more convinced than ever that Proof of Person hood/decentralised identity will cross the Rubicon and get recognized as an important "legitimate" mainstream usecase of public ledgers (and of Ethereum, specifically).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 shares their latest favourite podcast episodes</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1580pwg/daily_general_discussion_july_24_2023/jt9qh1v/)

**+++ Benido's favorite podcasts episodes +++**  
Some weeks ago, someone here asked for podcast recommendations and interesting episodes. Since I enjoy podcasts I thought it might be a service to the community to highlight those I really liked (or maybe disliked? Let's see what the future brings). The first edition was okay I think, so here's the second Top3.   
[Bell Curve: Is Liquid Staking a Winner-takes-all market? feat Hasu](https://blockworks.co/podcast/bellcurve/6051e334-1f09-11ee-aa93-ef3967b342c6)

This episode is interesting. It's part of the "LST Season" of Bell Curve and the first episode after the kickoff. As most of you are probably aware Hasu is a advisor to Lido and was not really in favor of self limiting when the discussion popped up last year (or beginning of this year? I can't remember). 

What's interesting here is that Hasu explains his arguments and assumptions about the staking/ LST market (e.g. CEXes and how they could capture a massive share withouth necessarily being ETH aligned, because it's just *one* business for them). I followed the discussion back in the days, but didn't really understand where he was coming from and understand him better now. I think we have to distinguish between his comments with regards to the market ("staking/ liquid staking is a winner takes all market) and specific LST providers/ protocols. He made a very interesting comment (apparently for the first time) where he basically says "its crucial ETH stays decentralized and the criticism towards Lido is correct". 

LSTs will be huge, listening to this one is a good time investment, even if you don't agree with Hasu in the end. 

[Uncommon Core (2.0): The Reboot feat Jon Charbonneau](https://uncommoncore.co/podcast/)

Don't worry, this one is not so much about Hasu :) It's the first episode of Uncommon Core after 1.5 years, this time featuring Jon Charbonneau instead of Zhu Su (who apparently couldn't make it). 

Jon is also front and center in this episode. He is introduced and interviewed, his CV is interesting (though his statement that he's in crypto "since just one year" is kind of funny, since he had been interested before, but now he's full time. But if full time is a req, most of us aren't into crypto...). 

Jon is an interesting guy, since he is not really part of any crypto tribe, but seems to be rather ETH focussed. Since he is rather new and neutral, his point of view is interesting. I made some comments the past couple of days about L2 (de)centralization and most of those were inspired by this episode. I think he is not idealistic and I also don't see him as a "decentralization maxi", hence some of his positions will probably clash with some of us, but I also think it's good to discuss counter arguments. Mostly because of this I highly recommend this episode (and probably also to follow Jon on Twitter). 

[Epicenter Podcast:  Ethereum - MEV, Staking Derivatives and Privacy feat Vitalik](https://epicenter.tv/episodes/505)

This guest doesn't need an introduction. I picked this episode, cause it's from EthCC, so last week, and probably VB's latest thoughts. 

It's a good interview, nothing too crazy (though there was one comment that I didn't understand, but can't recall what the topic was and hence also can't ask you to explain to me, FML), but still a very good interview. 

I also picked it, cause I made a comment in the daily some time ago asking [if there shouldn't be a protocol that allows you to borrow against your validator](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/13ogyzj/comment/jl4q6h4/). I even stated that "It's probably way trickier than I make it seem?"... and yes, that's the case. And the issue is not tech, it's an attack vector with regards to security. Since you could basically borrow against your validator, setup more validators (repeat) and/ or basically attack the network "for free" (you'll be slashed, but you have like 80% of the ETH value back in USD or so). Vitalik mentions this in a slightly different context, but this was a crazy moment (and I have to say I should have thought about this back when I made the comment 2 months ago). 

&#x200B;

So... this is it, these were in my opinion the best podcast episodes of the past weeks. The XRP case/ decision was also a very important topic and picked up in a lot of podcasts, but I don't think it was as good as these 3. 

I think I'll be back mid August with 3 new episodes, since then I'll be back from vacation and will listen to more podcasts on the way to work.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/wolfparking updates us on CBDCs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/158y8lm/daily_general_discussion_july_25_2023/jtcseex/)

Nice [compilation of info on this site](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/cbdctracker/) looking into the world of CBDCs. Interesting to see World economic dominance and powers changing gears around trade and the implications it might have for the US dollar. The article states that it is important to note that some countries build CBDCs in order to attempt to limit the United States’ ability to track cross-border flows and enforce sanctions. In the long term, the absence of US regulations and standards setting can have large geopolitical consequences, especially if China and other countries maintain their first-mover advantage in the development of CBDCs.

Russia just cemented their plans to create a digital national currency [Digital Ruble](https://decrypt.co/149831/digital-rubble-russia-cbdc-vladimir-putin-inflation). They were one of the last of the BRICS economic markets group to legislate and finalize a CBDC project; South Africa now being the last to implement plans and is still trialing different  models before committing to a project.  Under the above mentioned bill, Russians will be able to make payments and transfers from their digital wallets, which would be within the central bank's platform or that of one of its partner banks. On the other hand, the CBDC can only be used for payments or transfers, not loans or deposits, according to the central bank. Testing will begin next month. 

Brazil still hasn't released their CBDC although it should come out sometime later next year [in 2024.](https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2022/12/13/brazil-central-bank-plans-to-launch-a-cbdc-in-2024/)

India's pilot program is ramping up. The India central bank aims to reach a target of one million CBDC transactions per day by the end of this year from 5000-10,000 currently. [e-Rupee Article](https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/hdfc-bank-signs-up-over-100000-customers-digital-rupee-pilots-2023-07-13/)

China's digital Yuan coin hits $249 Billion in transactions so far this year. [LINK](https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/chinas-digital-yuan-transactions-seeing-strong-momentum-says-cbank-gov-yi-2023-07-19/)

Currently 130 countries, representing 98 percent of global GDP, are exploring a CBDC. In May 2020, only 35 countries were considering a CBDC. A new high of 64 countries are in an advanced phase of exploration (development, pilot, or launch).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/accidental_green created an open source tool for client migration!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/158y8lm/daily_general_discussion_july_25_2023/jtdymyx/)

I created an open source tool that allows anyone running Geth to instantly swap to a minority client with 0 configuration or effort. Just 1 click, new client.

Switch to/from any execution client (Geth, Besu, Nethermind) to any other, as well as remove and reinstall a broken client. Instructions on [Github](https://github.com/accidental-green/client-switcher) and more info in the [ethstaker post](https://reddit.com/r/ethstaker/comments/1598vq4/minority_client_switcher/).

Feel free to check out my other open source Ethereum projects:

[Instant Validator](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-install) \- Install a full validator from fresh Ubuntu in minutes  
[Validator Updater](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-update) \- Instantly update your Execution and Consensus client to latest version

I plan to do more projects like this, so let me know if you have any ideas to help improve the staking experience!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Hocilef covers the zkSync SyncSwap exploit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/158y8lm/daily_general_discussion_july_25_2023/jtdsh0d/)

from Syncswap twitter "We would like to inform you of a security incident with EraLendu/Era\_Lend a lending platform on zkSync Era.The EraLend team has detected and confirmed a cyber attack on their platform at (UTC) 2023/07/25 09:27:21. 

The attack has already been contained, and the threat actor is no longer able to continue their actions, as per the official announcement from EraLend. The EraLend team is currently collaborating with cross-chain bridge partners and zkSync to prevent any further potential asset outflows. 

Only USDC deposits on EraLend were affected by this incident.All other assets remain secure and unaffected, including SyncSwap USDC/ETH LP supplied on EraLend. However, it's recommended to withdraw your supplied LP on EraLend if any until things are sorted out to avoid further issues. There is no need to withdraw from SyncSwap protocol as it's not involved in the incident.

TL;DR - EraLend has been attacked and caused certain losses for EraLend USDC depositors. SyncSwap protocol is not involved; SyncSwap LP supplied on EraLend remains secure but you should withdraw them from EraLend.

 Please follow updates from EraLend's official Discord server and Twitter to keep up-to-date, and beware of scams! We hope everyone can stay SAFU￼"

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/logic_beach shares his 365th daily robot artwork NFT</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/159w1cr/daily_general_discussion_july_26_2023/jtlny4k/)

RobotADay

Logic\_Bot 365

2023/7/26

"FIN"

<https://opensea.io/assets/ethereum/0x0447433bd197f03be984a6053241ae8d347c5539/350>

When I first started drawing Logic\_Bots, I was working in a regular 9-5 job and wanted to break into the web3 ecosystem. So I took the plunge, quit my job, and started focusing on Ethereum (etc.) full time. Since that first bot drop, I have found a solid footing in web3 and don't plan on leaving anytime soon! I have learned a ton and have still lots to learn/build.  

Thank you to the awesome web3 community who have supported me and everyone else who put up with me!  

🤖💙✌️

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/RooftopPortaPotty explains Google's latest plans to try and monopolise the internet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/159w1cr/daily_general_discussion_july_26_2023/jtlllwu/)

Hanni, I appreciate your asking!

To start off, I have not heard of this before you shared it. This is going to be a long rambling of my thoughts and opinions.

This idea seems to be an absolute desecration of privacy on the internet. How would this even work when using an anonymizing service such as tor?

Google does have a long history of introducing new *things* that are not actual HTTP specs, purely as a way of forcing users to switch to chrome as their web browser.

Of course there are already solutions such as captchas, javascript checks, and services such as cloudflare which attempt to detect and prevent bots from interacting with web servers. That said, Web Environment Integrity seems to completely obliterate the usual flow of the world wide web.

Having such a centralized service(however the attesting API is implemented) is a devastating breach of trust of the client(though, servers should never trust clients). Who even controls this API? Google?

It seems that this idea *could* be utilized by servers regardless of infrastructure, which in some cases(such as enterprise intranet), may provide enhanced server-side security.

I absolutely agree with [vivaldi](https://vivaldi.com/blog/googles-new-dangerous-web-environment-integrity-spec/) that this is nothing more than DRM forced by web servers onto clients. Much more troubling is their note of the following,

>It is also interesting to note that the first use case listed is about ensuring that interactions with ads are genuine

which leads me to believe that this has been created solely for Google's ad business(after all, they are nothing more than a giant advertiser).

With chromium's market dominance, widespread implementation of this monstrosity would most certainly lead to the demise of competing browsers. 

The github link states 'Don't enable new cross-site user tracking capabilities through attestation.' as a goal. This is completely contradictory to the goal of Web Environment Integrity, which is to gain as much information about a client as possible, and share it with servers.

Another goal is 'Allow web servers to evaluate the authenticity of the device and honest representation' *honest* lmao yeah fucking right google is honest.

'Continue to allow web browsers to browse the Web without attestation' they just admitted that there is no point to this service. If it is avoidable, then whats it for?

'Enforce or interfere with browser functionality, including plugins and extensions.' They know damn well that it will interfere with any functionality that doesnt play by their rules.

Every one of their 'example use cases' are laughable.

'Detect compromised devices where user data would be at risk' is especially ridiculous, as protecting the client is the opposite of WEI's intended purpose. How would they even detect compromised devices where the compromised device is making a seemingly normal request?

The 'how it works' section is completely devoid of substance. Consider the following:

1. The website of a dapp uses googleapis, gstatic, etc for their operations.
2. Google retains an innumerable amount of data points regarding a user and their browser.
3. Google blacklists a 'browser'(still not sure how that would work, and neither do the authors of this trash idea, as is apparent) for interacting with anything crypto related.

Ok I honestly cant take this any longer. Whoever whipped this up clearly knows enough to know that this idea is evil.

I only see 4 goals of this project:

1. Make google ads inescapable.
2. Gain as much information of users of competing browsers as possible
3. Blacklist those users, and force them to use chrome
4. Ensure that google is the final arbiter of internet-worthiness

Wish I could say its surprising...

</details>
