---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-04-28
episode: 17
guest: Evin McMullen
guest_topic: "[Disco](http://disco.xyz/), your personal data backpack, making data and reputation portable across web2 apps, web3 dapps, IRL, and more"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/131i3ej/daily_general_discussion_april_28_2023/ji1cmr3/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=saq7NkGh4PY
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/124517
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/131i3ej/comment/ji1ce0n/)

[u/the-A-word](https://reddit.com/u/the-A-word)

> ETHEREUM
> 
> $1913
> 
> .065

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12x3uzq/comment/jhlu3yp/)

*Good blockchain actors,*

*Suing the regulators,*

*Stifling detractors.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: 1l0o</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12y8q1c/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2023/jhq3k30/)

Famous Crypto Last Words:

* I'll keep my coins on the exchange, I trust the experts more than I trust myself
* I used a hot wallet for my withdrawal address
* I took a photo of my seed phrase and encrypted it in the cloud
* This NFT is going to be the next Mona Lisa
* I used an exchange address for my withdrawal address
* These DeFi APRs are insane, I should get in while I can
* These governance tokens will jump in value with DAO voting and when utility is added
* I wrote my seed phrase in a text file, encrypted it, and put it on my NAS
* Everyone is saying the price is going down, better to sell now and re-buy when it goes lower
* I'll hold onto this air drop, it'll be worth way more in the future
* I sent my hardware wallet to my home address with my full name and real email in the order
* This ICO will fund the killer DApp we've all been waiting for
* I wrote my seed phrase on a piece of paper... somewhere...
* Converting ETH to a liquidity token is definitely a like-kind exchange
* These algorithmic stable coins will keep their peg under even the worst circumstances
* I used my hardware wallet seed phrase as my validator creation seed phrase

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Today in Ethereum: u/ZeroTricks</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/131i3ej/daily_general_discussion_april_28_2023/ji0nijy/)

On this day...

In 2022:

- Johns Gresham [releases](https://mirror.xyz/johnsgresham.eth/BqQ92jtwu3hl6Ri2-giRLd0hequOt8Ya6ULAyCR-3ls) NiceNode alpha, a simple app that runs, monitors, and controls an Ethereum node.
- 10% of the Ether supply [is now deposited](https://twitter.com/ultrasoundmoney/status/1519640238381060097) in Ethereum's PoS contract.
- ETH eats a $2936 sandwich laced with ₿0.07382.


In 2021:

- JP Morgan [states](https://twitter.com/santiagoroel/status/1387417522777956354) that as the backbone of the crypto-native economy, ETH has more potential than BTC's store of value.
- 1729 [pays](https://1729.com/learn-solidity-with-cryptozombies) ETH for learning Solidity with CryptoZombies.
- The European Investment Bank [issues](https://www.eib.org/en/press/all/2021-141-european-investment-bank-eib-issues-its-first-ever-digital-bond-on-a-public-blockchain) its first ever digital bond on the public Ethereum blockchain.
- The is no such thing as fear of heights for ETH at $2673 to $2746, or ₿0.04846 to ₿0.05.


In 2020:

- OkEx [becomes](https://www.okex.com/academy/en/okex-pool-becomes-the-pioneer-to-support-the-ethereum-2-0-topaz-test-network) a validator in Ethereum 2.0 Testnet Topaz.
- IPFS [v0.5](https://cointelegraph.com/news/decentralized-web-protocol-ipfs-has-its-biggest-update-so-far) increases uploading speeds by 25x, fetching content 2-5x, and finding data nodes 2-6x.
- ETH looks with big eyes from below $198, or ₿0.02541.


In 2019:

- Gods Unchained [talks](https://blog.godsunchained.com/2019/04/28/1-million-nfts-isnt-cool) about how to efficiently create millions of non-fungible tokens on Ethereum.
- Thanks ~~Obama~~ [Ethereum](https://reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/comments/bifsk6/not_a_lambo_but_not_bad/) for  $157 or ₿0.02983.


In 2018:

- ETH gets enlightened from $645 to $684, being all mindful and the such at ₿0.07322.


In 2017:

- Bank of America, Mojix and Webjet [demo](http://www.coindesk.com/ethereum-stole-show-microsofts-new-york-city-demo-day) products using ethereum on Microsoft's New York City demo day.
- ETH continues its hill climbing efforts from $62 to $71, reaching a great view between ₿0.04723 and ₿0.05358.


In 2016:

- Vitalik Buterin [pitches](http://www.coindesk.com/vitalik-buterin-addresses-hyperledger-possible-ethereum-integration) multiple ways to integrate Ethereum into Hyperledger
- ETH visits the lows of $7.2 for one last time, stuck somewhere between ₿0.01741 and ₿0.01598.

---

[compiled with love](https://eth-archive.xyz/blog/on-this-day-in-ethereum-workflow/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/SabishiiFury shares regulatory news out of a policy leader at Coinbase</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12smokw/daily_general_discussion_april_20_2023/jh15hlw/)

“The European Parliament’s adoption of MiCA today is a pivotal moment for the crypto industry in the region, and the work of European policymakers should be seen as exemplary,” said Tom Duff Gordon, Vice President of International Policy at Coinbase. “The region is recognising the potential and societal promise that emerging technology can provide. The EU is stepping up to the mark, while other notable jurisdictions are struggling to provide a solid, cohesive regulatory framework that gives clarity to a burgeoning innovative industry.”

<https://decrypt.co/137339/european-parliament-approves-mica-law>

Lol feel the burn

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Nonocoiner shares a disconcerting story reminding us to stay on high alert for scams</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12tqxpv/daily_general_discussion_april_21_2023/jh6utym/)

User Plastic-Resource-989 just posted a fake twitter link on r/cc about Uniswap announcing they experienced a hack.

The visual link was twitter.com, the actual link to twitter.cn.com

They messed up, as the link endpoint didn't work.

It looked like some bots were quickly responding, no one seemed to have noticed the link didn't even work.

Edit: the post has already been removed.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth reflects on one year in NFTs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12uv9kn/daily_general_discussion_april_22_2023/jhatugd/)

As I mentioned in the previous day it was 1 year in NFTs for me a few days ago and I'm taking that opportunity to reflect on the last year (& maybe a bit more) and on a variety of topics and experiences. I'm also going to repost them here and maybe something resonates here and there. Of course, I'm starting it with Ethfinance!

---

[1 Year in NFTs: Ethfinance](https://imgur.com/z2jXfi4)

I start my reflecting on 1 Year in NFTs from Ethfinance.

r/Ethfinance - subreddit that has influenced my Ethereum journey greatly, and thus - my NFT journey. 

But how is it exactly connected?

I've heard more and more about Ethereum as some of my online internet friends started exploring other chains besides bitcoin. Ethereum was one of the most promising ones. Eventually I ended up hearing more and more about it and I thought it was time to start looking into it. I do not remember exactly how but I did find r/ethfinance sometime in the middle of 2020. 

The discussion was amazing compared to the r/ bitcoinmarket's daily that I had been frequenting for years. Not only people were talking about the tech, it was the majority of the talk there. Quite a contrast compared to only 'number go up' in the btc daily.

Fast forward to March 2022, there's now talks about this NFT project - EVMavericks. Most active people where whitelisted. I had not. Why? Even though I'd been quite a frequent visitor - I was a lurker. Luckily, I made a few comments over the few years and that was enough to get on an additional list and then winning a raffle solidified my involvement. 

Nowadays I still visit the Ethfinance daily, almost on a daily basis. Sometimes I get too busy with life. It's still a wonderful place to ask questions, hear about new developments, be alerted about important topics, see the stories of community members and learn something new everyday.

After being one of the most active members in the EVMavericks discord and being still quite a strong lurker and even turning into a slight poster on Ethfinance, I can share a few of my observations. 

I personally prefer the pace of the discord as it's more of a live chat and closer to a real time conversation. Ethfinance has a higher quality and lower noise. Yet it doesn't do one thing very well for me and I'd bet especially for the people who are lurking - involving you in being part of the community. You see, sometimes folks like me who are new and not technical have really nothing substantial to contribute. And even though some of us are still asking some questions from time to time which I believe are still valuable contributions, it just does not complete the puzzle. And I believe each of us has something to offer and we can learn something new from each other. And this is where discord comes in and that is what it allows you to do, and I feel that EVMavericks degen chat, in particular, is prime example of bringing folks together. It's a glue. Still maybe for some but not others. 

Now I'm not going to go into pros and cons of each platform but one more thing I will mention is that the subreddit is a nice free resource for new folks. And I feel the vibe is especially geared for people who are, hopefully, going to make it financially as well as being the ones who are understanding and embracing many aspects of the technology and tools that we discover and build. 

Next up: reflecting on EVMavericks.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth continues their 1 year in review series</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12y8q1c/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2023/jhmjpyn/)

[1 Year in NFTs: Twitter Followers (4/21/2022-present)](https://imgur.com/Ulr1FWP)

I never really cared about Twitter prior to this point. I created an IRL account like 10ish years ago but never really used it. When it comes to crypto, most of my time was spent on Reddit - r/ethfinance.

Now, I'm not sure why I created this account, but it seems to be a day after I minted my Maverick. I know there's usually lots of excitement during the early days (the honey moon phase), and people were eager to bond together and roar about the lion pride. Anyway, I ended up creating an account and following all the Mavs the EVMavericks account was following. One thing that was still weird to me is that so many web3 or crypto projects use Twitter, which is a full web2 platform that can and has rugged some of my friends' accounts before. My account has been locked multiple times for no reason until you add your phone number, etc. to unlock it. One click on their end - you are gone.

Over time, and after getting more into ENS, I started caring more. I've changed sides of caring and not caring so many times now that I don't remember all the details, but I do know the important parts. What I've come to and what I hold nowadays is that I am able to hold both of the sides of caring and not caring at the same time. I personally don't care about it at all. When I'm in nature, when I'm doing things outside, when I'm engaged in the things that matter, and so on and on and on.

The nuance comes in because part of me does care. It does care for a very noble, specific set of reasons too. In the world where I do have more followers, I would be able to spread my values, educational messages, and even some funny memes to a wider range of people. All of that is nice, and yet it's important to let go of all of that. Otherwise, it alters my behavior in a way where it's still geared a bit more towards getting better numbers, while still keeping my true values. But then I wonder, and I like challenging myself with the question, "Why does a number of followers impact the content?".

"If I am doing something good, wouldn't it matter whether one or a thousand people see that?"

Again, there are, at least, two sides to the coin that I'm holding. And at the end of the day, I'm still human, and it does get very demoralizing to see all the people doing scammy (all other types of things) having more followers and more impact, which I judge as a net negative.

And why am I building in the first place?

I thought having a personal blog is nice addition that is like a journal, a resume, and basically an on-chain history of your identity. It seems we are not there in crypto, so that's why I'm still using Twitter, as it does matter, but also playing around more with web3 projects like mirror.xyz and paragraph.xyz. Also, building on top of ENS, even something as simple as a site - 696.eth.limo, is a way of doing that.

Honestly, there's still so much more to write about followers and how I have figured out some particular nuances, but, again, it doesn't really matter to me at the end of the day.

Although I'd say I have tried to be consistent on a daily basis for almost a year, maybe missing a bit in the beginning, and have contributed content in a variety of forms, including memes, threads, questions, observations, analysis, videos, news, step-by-step guides, etc and I have gotten to 2275 followers. That's also including all my NFT related communities and ENS.

I'd like to end it on a note that's future-focused. What am I going to do going forward?

Obviously, I don't have enough reach, and that's also a good thing for me mentally, as it gives me so much more room to experiment and make mistakes.

The most important to me is to be true to my values and certain things like curiosity, decentralization, community, collaboration, communication, transparency, education, and making people smile and laugh. All of that while being authentic, having a better balance on how this piece fits within my life puzzle. Focusing on my connections with people and on the effort that I'm putting in, and the content I'm creating than [being a slave to the algorithm.](https://imgur.com/dggpWLe)

Next up: Art, creating Art.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade reviews RocketPool's Atlas upgrade in the days since it went live</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12vwbun/comment/jhdmsg3/)

Here's a Rocket Pool update since Atlas / LEB8 went live.

The minipool (RP's validator) count went up from shy of 14,000 to 15,329 today. Since 16eth pools can be divided into 2 leb8 pools, total count goes up, not much of a surprise here. Roughly +10% in 5 days.

More interestingly, node count went up as well from 2,291 to 2,393 which is a clear uptick that can be seen in [this chart](https://rocketscan.io/nodes). More nodes is what we decentralization maxis should be all about (and what I'm all about), so this is absolutely great news. According to [Etherscan's node count](https://etherscan.io/nodetracker), there are currently 9,170 Ethereum nodes.

**Rocket Pool now accounts for more than 1/4 of all Ethereum nodes. With a market share of only 2.7% of validators.**

I haven't found any reliable chart updated with Atlas but from my observation of the total number of eth staked from the [official website](https://rocketpool.net/#header), there's been roughly 3,000 eth poured into RP daily since the update. That's $5 million per day.

Before Atlas, the deposit pool was continuously full (meaning reth was highly in demand, never available) causing [a premium on the price](https://dune.com/mellamopablo/reth-premium). Today it's the opposite, there are many minipools waiting so the deposit pool is close to empty. In other words, many node operators are waiting for people to swap to reth. The premium is almost gone.

There are currently [21,870 reth worth $43 million waiting to be picked](https://portfolio.metamask.io/stake).

I'm expecting some whales to swallow a lot soon, and secretly hoping for Vitalik to swap some eth for reth. Would be crazy publicity for RP. Next time he does an AMA I'd like to ask him what he dislikes the most about Rocket Pool, I'm very curious to know his opinion.

In other great news, Rocket Pool's reth is now more profitable than Lido's steth, making it [the default option to stake from Metamask](https://portfolio.metamask.io/stake).

Rocket Pool is currently ranked [\#11 by TVL on Ethereum](https://defillama.com/chain/Ethereum) with a TVL of $1.37B and it looks like it will enter the top 10 in a few days.

I've probably missed some key data and would love to hear more!

Disclosure: Rocket Pool enthusiast here, rpl is my second largest holding after eth and approximately 25% of my total net worth.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nikola_j explains an interesting tidbit about EOAs and smart wallets</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12vwbun/daily_general_discussion_april_23_2023/jher94h/)

Hey, mate, one of the defi saver team members here.

Not sure which protocol you're considering using there specifically - is it Aave?

If yes, then that means that a position created on a smart wallet using defi saver would not be visible or manageable in the default frontend available att app. aave. com.

Why is that? Well, interacting with all these different protocols directly through an EOA (your standard Ethereum account) is the default approach in most cases (e.g. Aave, Compound, Liquity). This is mostly for simplicity reasons and gas savings.

However, a standard Ethereum account is currently limited in terms of how many smart contract interactions can be called within a single transaction.

This is why we chose to use the smart wallet as default for holding positions of each protocol we integrate at defi saver.

Main reason? The smart wallet provides a new layer of execution that has no limitations that a standard Ethereum account does. That's why we have options such as 1-tx leveraging/deleveraging, collateral and debt swaps, 1-tx moving of active positions between supported protocols, as well as a number of automation options for all protocols.

This short article in our knowledge base has a brief intro to the smart wallet: [https://help.defisaver.com/en/general/what-is-the-smart-wallet](https://help.defisaver.com/en/general/what-is-the-smart-wallet) 

If there's anything else I can clarify, please do let me know, would be glad to help.

**tl;dr:** If you open an (e.g.) Aave position on a smart wallet using defi saver, it won't be accessible through their frontend at aave. com. All exactly same protocol rules and rates apply in both cases, but their frontend only supports positions sitting on EOAs.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ArcadesOfAntiquity discusses an underrated type of cold wallet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12x3uzq/daily_general_discussion_april_24_2023/jhi0715/)

Hey folks, just popping in to say: air-gapped QR code-based signers are vastly underrated as a crypto wallet security solution. (I'll refer to this tech as AGQR for the sake of brevity.)

I finally took the trouble to switch my wallets over to AGQR in the wake of the mysterious wave of wallet drainings that Twitter has been [abuzz](https://twitter.com/tayvano_/status/1648187031468781568) about.

**How do AGQR signers work?**

1. Similar to dedicated hardware wallets, you create a new seed on the signer device itself. (You can also import an existing seed.) You store a backup of the seed you created in the same way you usually would/should: always by writing it down, never by printing/screenshotting.
2. Your private key is held on the signer device--in my case I'm using an old Android phone running the free, open source Airgap.it Vault software. (I know, it might sound risky to keep your private key on a phone, but if you're cautious enough not to trust airplane mode, you could physically shield, remove, or otherwise disable the wifi, bluetooth, and cellular radios.)
3. On a separate, networked device (PC/laptop/tablet/other phone), wallet software such as Metamask suggests a transaction in the way we're familiar with, but when you click "Accept", instead of signing the transaction itself, it displays a QR code containing the parameters of the transaction.
4. You scan this code using your AGQR signer device, and then authorize signing on the device itself, using whatever security features the device has--PIN number, pattern drawing, fingerprint, etc. Again this is similar to dedicated hardware wallets, but here there is no physical connection between the two devices. (Hence the term "air-gapped"... which is probably a rather old security term, and makes less sense now that wireless networking is pervasive, but I digress.)
5. After you authorize, your AGQR device signs the transaction data and displays it on-screen in the form of a QR code.
6. You then hold the screen of the AGQR device up to a webcam attached to the networked device that first suggested the transaction, and it reads the QR code and broadcasts the signed transaction to the Ethereum network.

It might sound like a hassle but the whole process takes about one minute when you get used to it.

**Why not just use a hardware wallet like Trezor, Ledger, Lattice, etc?**

1. Owning a hardware wallet makes it obvious that you're into crypto. For those of us who would rather keep it discrete, an old phone wins hands down. The hw wallet companies seem to really disregard this segment of the market. Case in point, the new "fashion" Ledger wallets that you wear on a chain around your neck. Thanks but no thanks.
2. Personal information exposure risk. Buying a hardware wallet potentially creates a record of your name/address/phone number/credit card number being associated with cryptocurrency. This could be no big deal, or it could be a huge deal in the case of the Ledger customer data leak. Buying a phone creates no such risk. In fact...
3. You probably already own an old phone. If not you can buy one cheaper than you can a hw wallet.
4. Phones are mass-produced consumer technology. We could argue that hardware wallets have become this too, but which is easier to quickly replace, repair, or troubleshoot? Definitely the phone, in my opinion.
5. No custom firmware/drivers. It seems like every few weeks there are new headaches and incompatibilities based on faulty or late firmware/drivers.

**Downsides?**

1. Since it's just (free) software that runs on a phone, it doesn't create any revenue for the people that make it. Therefore if there are future changes to Ethereum's transaction data format, updates to the AGQR signer software could be slow or even, worst-case, non-existent. However, the software I'm using is open source, so I wouldn't expect it to be a problem for long, if at all.
2. For the same reason, the supported range of phones might not be the best. The software installed on my old Galaxy S6, but wouldn't launch properly. 
3. For the same reason, customer service/support might also be bare-bones or non-existent. I haven't checked yet.
4. Not many people are using it, as far as I know, so you won't be able to Google for answers as easily. But hopefully as awareness of how effective this tech is, this situation will change! Indeed, that's part of the reason I'm posting this.

**Summary and Conclusion**

I'm aware I'm maybe honeymooning over it, but I'm strongly tempted to say the AGQR signer is "the way": it has basically all the benefits of a hardware wallet and basically none of the drawbacks. It's portable, small, and self-contained, without notifying everyone that you're into crypto, and if it breaks, no big deal, you can get a new one the next day.

Trying to think about it more objectively, I know some people are likely to feel that AGQR on an old phone is a bit too "DIY" to trust their money with it. That's understandable, but on the other hand, I figure a lot of us here already have a pretty DIY attitude if we're willing to hold our own keys in the first place.

In conclusion, I think there will always be a market for dedicated hardware wallets, as a "no compromises" type, maximum security, industrial-grade solution. However, for most of us, I think AGQR fits the needs of the user so much better that it's not even close. Especially if you tend to think things should be open source and self-hosted, you owe it to yourself to explore this tech.

TLDR: I'm loving my AGQR setup and just wanted to let everyone here know about it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 is brainstorming a project for the community</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12x3uzq/daily_general_discussion_april_24_2023/jhhxhlh/)

Here is a proposed public good that I think we could bootstrap through this community or EVMavericks.

A curated white-list of trust-worthy smart contract addresses. Plus a browser extension that relies on it and lets you know whenever you are interacting with a smart contract that it's a know and trustworthy one and warns you when it's an unknown one.

In the future this whitelist could hopefully be integrated in other wallets, MetaMask, frame.sh, etc...

Thoughts and criticisms welcomed!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/etheraider wants you to build and win prizes! Meanwhile, u/LeagueGreedy sheds some light on the creating Withdrowlst</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12y8q1c/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2023/jhpgv96/)

[u/etheraider](https://reddit.com/u/etheraider):

Hello everyone! Withdrowls Public Goods Funding Update!🦉

First off thank you to everyone who participated and celebrated with us this seminal moment in Ethereum history! We look forward to celebrating many more with you to come!🎉
With that said, we are happy to announce our official Buidlathon!💪

Are you a builder or are you LOOKING to build in web3 and just need the extra push/incentive/funding to get the ball rolling?! If so, here is your chance!🫡

As a way to commemorate how far EVMavericks and our community has come, starting today and going through “TBD date” (to be announced soon), we will be hosting an open competition for anyone that wants to build infra/tools/public goods/dapps/new services on web3!

The prizes for the competition will be as follows:

1st place: 5 ETH

2nd place: 3 ETH

3rd place: 1.5 ETH

Random participation prize: .05 ETH

Winners will be determined by a “panel” of 5 judges, to include 4 individuals and the 5th judge as a “popular” snapshote vote amongst EVM holders.🦁

In order to participate and be eligible to win, builders will have to sign up with their idea/proposal in the the EVMavericks discord and submit at least a working “alpha” or prototype of their project by the due date. 

Also, as a general rule all projects that are already well in progress would not be eligible for this competition as that would be an unfair advantage to start

For more details and or questions please check out the Buidlathon channel in the discord! (If you don’t have an EVM just select the Buidlathon role to get in the channel!)

Thank you everybody and happy building! More details to come soon! Looking forward to seeing what projects will be created! 🔥

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12y8q1c/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2023/jhpqcos/)

[u/LeagueGreedy](https://reddit.com/u/LeagueGreedy):

It feels so good to have fully minted out Withdrowls and start the public goods funding buidlathon!  It makes me so happy to see community come together to support a great cause!

Some fun facts about Withdrowls: it was 4 days from idea to mint out. Marketing started the day after we decided this was something we wanted to do, so only 48 hours of marketing before mint. It also only took 24 hours to mint out! Oh, and about 95% of the tweets were automated, that was a lot of fun.

We jammed A LOT into those 4 days so please give [u/etheraider](https://reddit.com/u/etheraider) a hug next time you see them, and please sign up; all ideas are welcome :)

Feel free to hijack this comment's replies if you don't have an idea, but would like to team up with a community member!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard talks more on human coordination</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12z6zsm/daily_general_discussion_april_26_2023/jhr4hui/)

I've written before about crypto and [Human Coordination](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/human-coordination/) and why it is my favorite leg of The Rabbit Hole. A lot of the work to date on this topic is on deciding relative balances of power between key actors via token distributions, identifying all the necessary actors of a system and ensuring they are fairly compensated and cannot profit from misbehavior (incentive alignment), and creating systems to encourage voter participation such as delegation and bribe systems. There is an implicit step before all of that wherein an organization needs to agree on what it is trying to achieve and critically *how* it should go about achieving it. This is the value alignment process, it is a never-ending affair, and it's a predecessor to all other actions of an organization.

Once upon a time in MakerDAO, after a black swan event wiped out many of their early users, the DAO was faced with a decision on whether to reimburse those affected. They decided not to. They then had to decide what was more important between peg stability and decentralization. They chose peg stability and created the Peg Stability Module (PSM). To this day I still disagree with both of those decisions but regardless of how I feel the DAO had to wrestle with controversial values, reach a consensus, and then act. How to enshrine values into a system varies greatly by each system but I think it's worth reviewing some of the methods we've seen so far, what is good and bad about them, and how we might be able to improve upon them.

Some systems are able to enshrine their values in code. For example Ethereum, when forced to tackle the [scalability trilemma](https://chainstack.com/solving-the-blockchain-trilemma-scaling-solutions-for-ethereum/), chose decentralization and security over scalability. These values are encoded in the gas market and block sizes. Solana went the other path. Earlier in its history Ethereum was forced to choose between finality and ethics (look up Ethereum Classic). We chose ethics. Judging by the relative adoption of Ethereum vs Ethereum Classic this was apparently the more widely supported choice by a majority of node owners, app developers, and companies. Behind these decisions is what we commonly call Layer 0. This is one of the most fragile parts of the Ethereum ecosystem and one that we have to maintain constant vigilance on. The value alignment process for Ethereum can basically be described as a vacuum where a process should be. How does one become part of the Layer 0 set of actors? Basically you post in Ethfinance, attend events like Hodlercon, meet/influence the right people, attend core dev calls, write ERCs, etc. You go down The Rabbit Hole and get *involved*.

In more traditional power structures where value alignment decides the strategy of something but not necessarily its implementation it is more normal for the value alignment process to take place by delegation and hierarchical decomposition. It is infeasible to coordinate an organization the size of a nation state using an open mic system or social media upvotes. So we tackle this complexity using walled gardens and hierarchies. Within a corporation the primary organization of this hierarchy is what I refer to as the [pyramid of subordination](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/04/TradiCorporateStructure.png). This structure prevents bystander syndrome by assigning accountability for each task, ensures each person is qualified for the job using a social attestation system in the local vicinity of the pyramid (interviews), and generally organizes people to act towards a unified goal. It is efficient when done well. The military uses a similar structure for the same reasons. It also doubles as a more efficient value alignment system than I've seen in DAOs. When there is disagreement this structure provides an escalation process amongst direct reports, peers, and superiors within the pyramid of subordination. If a matter isn't satisfactorily resolved by those initially involved, it escalates up to the C-level personnel who serve as the ultimate authority for the values of the organization. By the time it reaches them, there are almost certainly multiple valid strategies that could be taken that they are deciding between. This is actually the primary value of C-level personnel; they embody the values of an organization.

So what are the problems with this design? What are we hoping to improve with web3 technologies? Well, the problem begins just above the pyramid of subordination. As we’ve seen in the US in the past 50 years, using highly liquid capital as the ultimate authority source in the system has led to the pursuit of short-term profits at the detriment of all other factors. Shareholders care about their share price and dividends above all other factors and so they appoint C-level personnel and structure their compensation to reflect this desire. As a result companies destroy the environment, have little to no regard for their employees well-being, subjugate their local communities, pursue one merger and acquisition after another in order to form too-big-to-fail monopolies, and exploit every financial and political system they can to stifle competition and create power imbalances in their favor. From a game theory perspective this is the expected outcome of this design. It is Moloch in action, as our society increasingly organizes itself into these ever growing capital-hungry behemoths. You would think companies would be beholden to customers but the customer has no influence in this power structure other than to take business elsewhere. Sadly, working to stifle competition and reduce customer choice is often more effective for companies than working to improve the customer experience or provide a better product. So, the first thing to improve is to create structures for value alignment that are able to embody a wider diversity of values without sacrificing organizational efficiency.

The second thing to improve is resilience. This structure is fallible to key-man syndrome. It is optimized for efficiency not resilience. When one person has the full autonomy to do something it becomes ripe for corruption and/or enforcement pressures. The larger the set of people that need to consent to something the harder it becomes to form a conspiracy to make any decision that does not align with the DAO consensus mission.

If we can only succeed at improving these two facets of organizations, crypto would already be a world-altering, indispensable technology. But we are working on so much more than that. We are working on ways to divorce capital from influence, remove the walled garden around the value alignment system, fight any and all forms of coordination failures, and novel ways of incentive alignment that can change human behavior at scale so that our societal values more closely align with those of our dominant power structures. It is basically impossible to be against this ethically once you understand it. The most bullish thing for Ethereum is to be understood.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Hocilef shares an underrated protocol</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/12z6zsm/daily_general_discussion_april_26_2023/jhrphbf/)

I have came across an interesting protocol called Sismo enabling users to manage their various digital indentities privately using zk-badges.

As hinted, it uses zero-knowledge proofs. If you are not familiar with these, this video shared multiple times in the daily was very helpful (<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fOGdb1CTu5c>). Basically, it is a mathematical tool allowing to selectively reveal a piece of data. Applying these to digital identity, you can aggregate valuable characteristics from different account (web2) or ethereum wallet without revealing their adresses. 

For instance, let say you have a wallet with which you gave a lot to Gitcoin grant and another one with a high degen score. You want to aggregate theses characteristics in a third without giving your history (adresses). Sismo allows you to do this. Practically, you connect your different wallets to their apps, create signatures and mint "zk-badges". A badge is a non-transferable/soulbound token (NT-ERC1155).

From their docs (<https://docs.sismo.io/sismo-docs/>):

> Users aggregate their identity in Sismo’s Data Vault and start accumulating Data Gems—atomic pieces of data that categorize users into groups. In turn, users can generate proofs to make claims about their data (e.g, I own a specific NFT). These proofs are verified by applications—either on-chain or off-chain. The resulting privacy-preserving attestations—stored in on-chain smart contracts or off-chain databases—are utilized by applications for access control and reputation curation.Users aggregate their identity in Sismo’s Data Vault and start accumulating Data Gems—atomic pieces of data that categorize users into groups. In turn, users can generate proofs to make claims about their data (e.g, I own a specific NFT). These proofs are verified by applications—either on-chain or off-chain. The resulting privacy-preserving attestations—stored in on-chain smart contracts or off-chain databases—are utilized by applications for access control and reputation curation.

If you have participated in Gitcoin Round 15, you can mint a ZK-badge curated by their team!
<https://app.sismo.io/?badge=gr15-gitcoin-contributor-zk-badge>

I hope to find a way in the EVM discord to experiment with creating badges for lion minter/holder. Here is the creator section of the app if you are interested
<https://factory.sismo.io/create-badge>

</details>
