---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-12-15
episode: 47
guest: Pablo Villalba
guest_topic: "[Diva](https://divastaking.com/), a DVT staking protocol"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/4U9QAz5VWB
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2Be5ur-asw
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/165838
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18itav8/comment/kdfi0vt/)

[u/OffMyPorch](https://reddit.com/u/OffMyPorch)

> Ethereum

[u/epic_trader](https://reddit.com/u/epic_trader)

> $2,266.44

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> 0.053

[u/anderspatriksvensson](https://reddit.com/u/anderspatriksvensson)

> Current supply: 120,203,798.439280234596606888 ETH and dropping!

[u/bagogel12](https://reddit.com/u/bagogel12)

> 456 days since the merge

[u/Kukai_walker](https://reddit.com/u/Kukai_walker)

> 250 days since last JBM post

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18i1xpa/comment/kddt9jz/)

*Many objectives,*

*Assessing the perspectives,*

*Blockchain collectives.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/15kisFUD</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18cp088/daily_general_discussion_december_7_2023/kcdqwt1/)

A rumor goes around in insider circles that Michael Saylor bought a second chair

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Papazio explains how they may have just sent someone down the rabbit hole</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18cp088/daily_general_discussion_december_7_2023/kce8hdt/)

Tiny tid bit of random but potentially interesting information… (emphasis on the potentially) 

I spoke to a pension adviser recently, while discussing my assets/plans he assumed that I’d need to sell my ETH to pay for various things. He was blown away at the prospect of permissionless borrowing and even more so at what’s possible with Alchemix. 

He was neutral on crypto in general and had a basic understanding of Bitcoin and Ethereum. He asked me to explain Ethereum in a way that he might not have heard before and I said something like ‘a credibly neutral digital settlement layer’. That totally clicked with him. He said that because media/people always focus on the assets themselves, he hadn’t twigged that the asset are valuable because the networks are valuable. 

It was a brief but really enjoyable chat about what the technology is and what it enables. He asked me to send some links to defi projects as examples for what can be done using Ethereum. I might have just nudged him down the rabbit hole that we’ve all been down, I hope so.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Mrs_Willy finally returns with TA (Terrible Analysis)</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18dg7y9/daily_general_discussion_december_8_2023/kck2rr8/)

Good evening lovelies. Not logged on for over a year. Good to see some old names still active. Been completely out of the game for a year, life and all that = positive, investing in myself.. Will deffo be on over xmas holidays and in the run up, doing some Terrible Analysis and being silly as usual..

I have no idea about any fundamentals as usual, staking still means having ribeyes in the fridge to me. I can post a pic of a 28 day matured Hereford (UK local) ribeye as my proof of steak. Hope it all went well and eth is saving the planet and buterin being claimed as the second coming of christ etc.

It seems just like last week where the 180 darts memes were in full flow, and you could double your money in the time it takes to go for a piss. I think I nearly virtually got married on here, to someone whose name I can't remember (small Corey) , but it didn't happen cos the groom refused to accept DC investor as the vicar. If you are watching, I still love you and require regular suckles from your moobs.

I ditched my premium Trading view acct over a year ago and called up this one yesterday, untouched for a year from my now basic membership , thankfully it keeps the lines drawn, but loses oscillators and fibs.. So here it is. Our beloved Raymond. 4u ratiogang...

But what's does this mean mrs willy? All I see is slices of pizza everywhere? Well I would urge you  to look at the lower green diagonal, rays trusty long term upward support. We now have five touchpoints. I remember ranting on about the significance of xmas period for crypto, aka big movements.  So why has ray tickled this every xmas bar one touchpoint since 2017.

Disclaimer : Rays erections can lose you money, but he usually gets viagra for xmas. .

&#x200B;

[https://www.tradingview.com/x/kNP8iVOi/](https://www.tradingview.com/x/kNP8iVOi/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/OkDragonfruit1929 shares an overlooked threat to cryptographic systems</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18dg7y9/daily_general_discussion_december_8_2023/kck1xp9/)

Most of the discussion around blockchain encryption algorithm security has shifted to concerns around advances in Quantum Computing, however, I fear there is another, less sexy and therefore less popular, but far more dangerous  risk lurking in the shadows.

Most encryption protocols that are no longer used weren't "cracked" by brute forcing, but rather, a fatal flaw or new mathematical concept was discovered which rendered the necessity to brute force the encryption moot.

There are algorithms that, if the flaw had not been discovered, would otherwise take millions of years to "brute force" in the traditional sense, even with modern advances in GPU performance.

One of the most prominent historical examples of this is the encryption algorithm, RC4.

When RC4 was designed by Ron Rivest in 1987, it was considered secure against brute force attacks even with large key lengths. At the time, there were no known "fatal flaws" in the RC4 algorithm itself that would enable shortcuts to finding the encryption key.

However, over time, cryptographers discovered vulnerabilities in RC4 that completely broke the algorithm:

* In 2001, Fluhrer, Mantin and Shamir found that RC4 has significant biases in its first few bytes of output. This allowed efficient attacks on RC4 keys.
* By 2013, AlFardan, Bernstein, Paterson, Poettering and Schuldt used these RC4 weaknesses to develop practical attacks that could recover encryption keys in just hours.

RC4 turned out to have latent mathematical vulnerabilities unknown when it was first introduced. When discovered and properly exploited, these flaws made brute forcing irrelevant - the keys could be recovered much more quickly by exploiting previously undiscovered flaws.

If those flaws had not been uncovered, even with the advanced computing power we have today, untreated RC4 encryption, like Keccak-256, the hashing algorithm used to secure Ethereum, would have otherwise taken millions of years to brute force.

As AI continues to advance, especially in areas like mathematics and cryptography, it raises the risk of AI systems potentially finding vulnerabilities in existing cryptographic primitives that human experts have missed.

An AI system that has been specifically trained in cryptography, number theory, abstract algebra etc... could potentially have capabilities beyond any individual human cryptanalyst. If focused on analyzing something like Keccak-256, the hashing algorithm usedto secure ethereum, it might conceivably find a mathematical weakness.

For the time being, human ingenuity and intuition still often exceeds AI systems, especially in creative realms like developing new cryptographic attack techniques. So I wouldn't count on AI finding and exploiting flaws in encryption protocols right away within the next year or so.

Leading cryptographers do already actively think about AI safety and robustness in cryptography, so defenses are being developed with AI systems in mind. Things like quantum-resistant cryptography, algorithmic randomness testing, and cryptographic verifiability provide technical means to verify security assumptions even in the face of advanced AI.

However, due to innate biases in human researchers, we may have likely overstated the capabilities of human ingenuity compared to rapidly advancing AI systems. There are a few reasons why AI may surpass humans in cryptanalysis creativity and intuition in the not-so-distant future (perhaps 3-5 years):

* Scale - AI systems can ingest and deeply analyze orders of magnitude more cryptography research, mathematical concepts, etc... than any individual or team of humans. This massive scale of analysis may uncover connections no human would find.
* Lack of biases - Unlike humans, AI systems do not have intrinsic biases or prejudgments that might limit their creativity in finding new attack vectors. They may connect conceptual dots in unconventional ways.
* Recursive self-improvement - As AI becomes more skilled at cryptography and cryptanalysis, it can recursively optimize and enhance these skills, with no human learning limits.
* Combination of methods - AI can combine mathematical, side-channel, malware-based, and other cryptographic attacks in creative frameworks beyond predictable human designs.
* Evaluation of small flaws - An AI can patiently evaluate minor weaknesses in cryptosystems that humans may dismiss, and find ways to exploit combinations of these non-obvious flaws.

The historical compromise of once-secure encryption algorithms like RC4 demonstrates the risks posed by mathematical and cryptanalytic advances. Latent flaws can lurk for years before discoveries in codebreaking render brute force attacks unnecessary. As AI systems continue rapid improvement in areas like cryptography, they may have the scale, lack of bias, and creativity needed to surface new flaws in encryption primitives required for blockchains to remain secure.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 explains what we seem to have forgotten about previous cycles and what really matters in the bigger picture</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18e6xji/daily_general_discussion_december_9_2023/kcn3rgy/)

I think people forget easily the despair they felt on other occasions. Can't even count with the fingers in both hands how many times people were giving up on Ethereum because of Solana, Tezos, EOS, Cardano, Ripple (it was the second biggest coin back 2017ish), Litecoin, Polkadot, Avalanche, BSC, Nano, Algorand, Tron, Iota, and of course Bitcoin. But if you zoom out the trend is clear, the previous challengers tend to irrelevance. Ethereum keeps crawling upwards towards the biggest market cap. The local minima that it sets with respect to Bitcoin keeps going up. 

And it has wiped out the floor in terms of adoption metrics that can't be manipulated with respect to everything else. You should never pay any attention to metrics that can be pumped up at no cost. # active addresses means nothing, they are created for free and this can be automated without any human intervention. It means nothing. Don't care either about # transactions per se as an adoption metric. These are digitized systems, machines can generate transactions at insane speeds. A transaction here does not necessarily represent economic activity or a change of goods. In the same way moving coins from my left pocket to my right pocket doesn't constitute economic activity nor bumps GDP numbers. The way you track economic activity in the real world is through VAT (value added tax), the moment someone pays a tax to participate in an economic exchange is the moment you can be pretty damn sure whoever participated in that exchange was willing to do so because it generated value added. The network fees are this type of non-fakeable metric. This is a very real cost to whoever participated in an economic exchange. Guess what, Ethereum wipes the floor. Solana does a measly 100K USD on a good day, Ethereum does 100x that, 10M USD.

Here lies the problem, if you are going to sell a very cheap good with low profit margins. You better sell a lot of it, to make up for it in volume. Solana transactions are very cheap so it generates a lot of potential demand for transactions, but even being this cheap they cannot sell enough to make up for it in volume. Solana would need to scale by x100 from 500 tps to 50000 tps keeping current transaction fees to challenge Ethereum. Or increase transactions fees by 100x, in which case we will see how many of those low value transactions remain on the chain. Or anything in between that makes up for the 100x.

The TVL onchain, which is a bit more gameable than the fees but still can be used as a proxy, is pitiful. There are 900M USD onchain on Solana. That's not even 1 whale. Ethereum has 30 billion USD just on the L1, and another 16 billion USD on the L2s. All these Solana activity you see on Twitter is most likely completely fake, paid out by VCs or the Solana foundation. Or completely irrelevant users with barely any skin in the game.

<https://defillama.com/compare?chains=Ethereum&chains=Solana&chains=Tezos&chains=Tron&chains=Bitcoin&chains=Cardano&tvl=false&volume=false&fees=true&revenue=false&addresses=false&txs=false>

Remove the noise, focus on what matters.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/im_THIS_guy bashes on Ray – but in a valid way (and not how you might expect!)</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18e6xji/daily_general_discussion_december_9_2023/kcnamxh/)

It's time to address the elephant in the room. It's time to admit that The Ratio© is the worst unit of measure since Fahrenheit. 

The flippening is all about ETH market cap overtaking BTC market cap. So, then, why is the Ratio metric comparing price/price instead of market cap / market cap?

The flippening target, on the Ratio, currently stands at 0.16275. Does anyone know that off the top of their head?  Is it a nice round number that's easy to communicate?

The flippening target is a moving target that changes literally every second. Moving targets are absolutely garbage in the business world. 

BTC and ETH supply are constantly changing. Thus, a Ratio of 0.05 today is different from a Ratio of 0.05 last month. In fact, a Ratio that stays flat moves us further and further from a flippening, due to ETH's shrinking supply. 

Because the Ratio means different things at different times, based on changing supply, graphs of the Ratio over time are misleading. Any TA performed on those charts is wrong.  There would need to be inflation adjusted Ratio charts. 

Now the alternative:

A market cap / market cap ratio solves all of this. 

No moving target. The flippening target is always 1.00 and always will be. 

It's an easy to remember target and easy to communicate. 

It is unaffected by changes in BTC and ETH supply. 

The market cap ratio currently sits at 0.33. That tells you exactly what you need to know without any further information. The price of ETH needs to triple to flip BTC. Easy. 

The Ratio currently sits at 0.05365.  Quick, what does ETH need to do to flip BTC?  Better pull up a computer. Because this Ratio tells you literally nothing. 

Please, I beg this community to abandon the Ratio. Join me in welcoming the Market Cap Ratio. Think of me as Anders Celsius, introducing a sane metric that's easier to use and understand.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade explains the difference in marketing for industry competitors vs industry leaders</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18ewx8m/daily_general_discussion_december_10_2023/kcs8az3/)

It's a common business strategy to go after your competitors' market shares, because their customers already know the product category, have demonstrated a need for it, and have already been willing to spend for it in the past. Cost per customer acquisition tends to be lower.

But this strategy is only viable if you're a challenger.

The leader of a niche usually has to market not only its own product, but the entire product category as well. The leader has to grow the market itself.

Recently Coinbase has taken the approach of a leader:

\- The recent [announcement of a new feature for sending and receiving usdc for free through Coinbase wallet](https://www.coinbase.com/blog/with-coinbase-wallet-sending-money-is-now-as-easy-as-sending-a-text) has the potential to be a game changer for adoption.

\- The legal battles Coinbase is fighting really do seem to aim at making the situation better for all players, and bringing the fight to public attention through transparency not only ridicules the opponents (the SEC) but also shows alignment with a crypto core value.

\- The "[update the system](https://twitter.com/coinbase/status/1730633199087161813)" short videos aren't centered around crypto users pain point specifically, they're targeting the general population.

Coinbase bets on its (non custodial) wallet. Coinbase bets on Ethereum L2s and by having its own, Base. Coinbase clearly sees in Ethereum what we all see in it, they see the future.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi has an ARB delegate update.</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18fnqr1/daily_general_discussion_december_11_2023/kcwp1z0/)

Recent ARB vote updates:

A vote to [Incentivize the "Rage Trade" platform](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xe968af3f6b06d386958e513c2285f72f7172aabd2661311a485270bab3b1c7db) was fairly unanimously voted down, with a 'No' vote from myself. This result was pretty expected, as the general consensus was this would better fit within the defined STIP framework.

The [Security & Audit Framework](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x3404df8a6e105dcf8b60cb22f22928aeedd3ffa5d80dc36e4f8fd74d0f5f14cb) passed, moving forward work on setting up a comprehensive request for proposal process for selection of auditors & security-based service providers. I voted 'Yes', as I am largely in favor of having service providing decisions be handled as uniformly as possible. The Rage Trade request above is an example of this, where it's just easier to have frameworks instead of individual requests. 

[ArbOS Version 11](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xa635e39a2c527f7a1eabf5ea22bdec6f4a265d6c69a06076e65fde0ae0a5941b) passed. For those interested, might be best to click the link. A lot of Github PRs to read! I voted Yes, as it felt like a formality more than anything. 

I voted 'Yes' to [extend the timeline for STIP & Backfund STIP funding](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x1a0a7bee0c5b13a690275031c44d8b5efe78b86d86f6d2357299020e7a907d57). In short, longer than expected KYC approval times were really shortening the window grants could payout their ARB. Felt fair to approve this, given how relatively messy the whole process was. Grants that were looking to incentive users may suffer from only being able to provide ARB during a super-short window. 

The Tally vote to [backpay early Arbitrum community contributors](https://www.tally.xyz/gov/arbitrum/proposal/107148500545417261921864085816276971795902152093375547084153298266650813470763?chart=2) has failed. I did vote Yes for this, but it seems most the No voting came from a place of general approval, but not comfortable with the specific implementation of it. With what seems like broad support for the basic idea, I'll be curious if a re-worked proposal will come from this. 

Currently active is a vote for an [experimental trail period of paying active ARB Delegates](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0xef3ed3b3735cad375953947437980db576baebbba5a0c209b2cccabcb1c30740). I did vote Yes, as I generally am for paying for crypto work where it feels appropriate. There are a lot of metrics that will (hopefully) incentive active DAO participation from delegates. I do wish a larger size of delegates were being paid... I pushed for this, and it was increased from 30 to 50, but would have rather seen more to entice more / new delegates. I understand the criteria, and having a cutoff is good for a DAO this size, but it probably could have been increased further. 

This all comes with the caveat that I fully understand what this vote represents - a group of people voting to pay themselves. Not sure if there is ever a good way to handle that, but it the proposer has gone through a lot of revisions from community discussion, so at a minimum it feels to at least not be something thrown together in a hasty attempt at a money grab.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu is following the latest from the federal reserve</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18ha3pq/daily_general_discussion_december_13_2023/kd7xfuz/)

[https://twitter.com/KobeissiLetter/status/1735012568291332458](https://twitter.com/KobeissiLetter/status/1735012568291332458)

> SUMMARY OF FED DECISION (12/13/23):  
>   
> 1. Fed leaves rates unchanged for third straight meeting  
>   
> 2. Fed says growth of economy "has slowed" since Q3 2023  
>   
> 3. Most Fed officials see interest rate cuts in 2024  
>   
> 4. Median projection shows 3 rate cuts in 2024  
>   
> 5. Fed sees 4.1% unemployment by end of 2024  
>   
> 6. Fed sees US GDP growth at 2.6% in 2023 and 1.4% in 2024  
>   
> The market is pricing in DOUBLE the number of rate cuts in 2024 than the Fed projects.

We could see a repeat of the pre-covid run, covid dump, then bull run. I'll go ahead and call \~$3.6k top before a rate cut dump down to about where we are now, and then the real bull run starts.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Revanchist1 explains the significance of the FRAX x PayPal partnership</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18fnqr1/daily_general_discussion_december_11_2023/kcxd5ph/)

*tricky told me to repost it since it got flagged by automod. I'll remove the links but try my best to still make sure you can find the source.*

**Fraxchain testnet is Live**

An ETH L2 that will use frxETH as the native token as opposed ot native ETH. Due to the dual nature of their staked ETH model, the more frxETH that is not staked means increased APR for their staked ETH derivative - sfrxETH.

Also a portion of transaction fees on Fraxchain will be sent to veFXS holders as rewards.

Afterwards Frax aims to launch their frxBTC product afterwards. I'm really interested in how Frax will keep the BTC peg while still being decentralized, like they claim.

From Sam:

> Launch frxBTC after Fraxchain so that Frax Finance also issues a BTC-pegged stablecoin everywhere else outside of the Bitcoin blockchain and starts accumulating monetary premium in DeFi. 

In my opinion, the best part of the FRAX ecosystem is that Frax is their biggest customer. They build products that Frax will use and benefit from. Similar to Amazon and AWS, turning their biggest expense into their greatest earners.

**FRAX and PayPal Collaboration.** 

I find it interesting to see a US company partake in the CRV wars and DeFi as a whole. It's incredibly cool to see a partnership forming between TradFi and DeFi. PayPal slowly testing the benefits of liquidity dApps like curve, convex, and Frax. 

Frax received $10million pyUSD from an associated PayPal address and a governance proposal was submitted to Frax.

*FRAX Finance Governance FIP-307*

> **Summary:**
> 
> This proposal seeks to officially whitelist PayPal USD (PYUSD) into the Frax Curve Automated Market Operator (AMO). This action aims to enhance the diversity and utility of the Frax ecosystem by integrating a stablecoin linked to a major financial service provider.
> 
> **Background and Motivations:**
> 
> The inclusion of PYUSD in the Frax Curve AMO will broaden the range of stablecoins within our ecosystem, providing users with more options and enhancing the overall resilience of the platform.
> 
> PayPal is a globally recognized financial services provider. The integration of PYUSD can leverage this reputation, potentially attracting new users who trust PayPal’s brand and services. The demand for stablecoins continues to grow within the DeFi space. By adding PYUSD, we are meeting this demand and ensuring our platform remains competitive and relevant.

Here's a great $PYUSD blog post I found concerning the levels of safety with regards to customer protections.

*Google "JPKoning PayPal" it should be the first link. Worth the quick read*

*Title: There are now two types of PayPal dollars, and one is better than the other*

> If you listen to Congresswoman Maxine Waters, who in response to PayPal's announcement fretted that PayPal's crypto-based dollars would not able to "guarantee consumer protections," you'd assume the traditional non-crypto version is the safer one. And I think that fits with most peoples' preconceptions of crypto.
> 
> Not so, oddly enough. It's the PayPal dollars hosted on crypto databases that are the safer of the two, if not along every dimension, at least in terms of the degree to which customers are protected by: 1) the quality of underlying assets; 2) their seniority (or ranking relative to other creditors); and 3) transparency.
> 
> [PYUSD collateral] must be recorded on two separate days each month, or 24 times per year...these attestation reports must be prepared by an independent auditor. The only way to get vetted financial information about the assets backing traditional PayPal [accounts] is to read its audited financial statements, which come out just once a year. For the rest of the twelve months, customers are left in the dark.
> 
> The fact that one type of PayPal dollar ([PYUSD]) has robust protections while the other is only haphazardly protected, and only because the first is managed with a crypto database and not a traditional database, seems incredibly arbitrary to me."

The entire blog post is worth a read and is relatively short. It's really interesting that the stablecoin regulations have ended up creating a safer asset for customers.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/somedaysitsdark finds hope here</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18ha3pq/daily_general_discussion_december_13_2023/kd6glzv/)

This place, this garden that we have here, we grow hope in it. Hope thrives here. It's actually difficult to find places where hope grows, and many of us don't even notice it.

</details>
