---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-10-27
episode: 41
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/Ml2P2CaEGp
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HxFRR5gyupg
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/157240
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17hfyq2/comment/k6n618n/)

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> ✨E✨t✨h✨e✨r✨e✨u✨m✨

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0526

[u/Zeebrasurfer](https://reddit.com/u/Zeebrasurfer)

> $1783

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17dlmmp/comment/k60vron/)

*For a crust of bread,*

*Hunting the next airdrop shred,*

*Keeping us all fed.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Yeopaa</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17c390i/daily_general_discussion_october_20_2023/k5p02oj/)

I've held my silence for too long.

In my country the word 'doot' means vagina.

It's also slang for currency, 1 Doot = £1.

A common jibe here is 'Smell yer doot mate.'

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 is continuing their effort to make EthFinance a governance powerhouse</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17bb5od/daily_general_discussion_october_19_2023/k5inz8r/)

A few days ago I made my "[Let's make ETH Finance a Governance Powerhouse](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/178y9gp/comment/k53tnhe/)" post. First of all thank you for the positive feedback both with comments and upvotes! I have been thinking some more about it and even though there wasn't a real pushback, I would like to update it and cut it down to three steps.

1. Coordinate
2. Delegate
3. Communicate

After reading my own post a couple of times, I asked myself. "How would you respond to this if this was posted by someone else?" My gut feeling: It's a good idea, but it's too complex. We need to start with an MVP for governance and coordination. Hence, here's a short "Minimum viable coordination" (MVC) update:  

**1) Coordinate**

Once an airdrop is announced, we try to coordinate as fast as possible. 

We collect potential delegates from this community. Members can both announce their motivation to be a delegate for the protocol and members can suggest other members.  

We publish a list of  "aligned" delegates that are close to this community, but not daily active. 

We try to focus on a few delegates to make sure "our" delegates have a lot of tokens delegated and hence governance power. 

Obviously everyone is still free to become a delegate, but if we can achieve to agree on e.g. 2-3 "official" candidates that focus on one protocol, this would have a lot of benefits. My suggestion is also to that the "official" delegates should be delegates for one protocol only. My best educated guess is that the time needed for "good"/"professional" governance will be up only and in the future being a delegate for 2+ protocols will be very hard. 

**2) Delegate**

Well, this part is easy. We delegate our tokens to our "official" delegates. 

Why is it an extra step? Just to emphasize that it's coordination first and delegation second. Or in other words: I think it would be very beneficial if we all be patient. Don't claim on day one since most of the time the delegation is part of the claiming process. Let's try to make sure we really had some time to agree on candidates. 

**3) Communicate**

This is happening already, but we should do this as much as possible. Tag your delegates if you have question/ feedback. Or as a delegate: Talk to the community, ask for feedback if you are a delegate. 

The delegates are our ears and eyes for that protocol. E.g. I would have missed the LDO proposal, but I am very happy it was discussed here. We need this kind of activity to inform the community, align and coordinate even better than before. 

&#x200B;

I think this MVC is way better than the first one. Yeah, reporting sounds cool, but it might be overblown (and corporate?). And yes, preparation for a potential airdrop sure makes sense, but could also be a lot of work for something that never happens. Let's try to coordinate ad-hoc when there is a need. If that works out, we can always improve and add more steps. 

Airdrops are usually a big news and my guess would be that members that are mostly reading here will come to ETHFinance on these days. By definition I will not know what most of those lurkers will think of my suggest or do when we need to coordinate, but allow me to state this: You are the majority of this community and you all - as a group of lurkers - probably have more governance tokens than the active / posting members. I would really appreciate your silent coordination by reading and silent acting by delegating your tokens to a delegate from the community!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/jtnichol reflects on how EthFinance dodged a bullet with Reddit's community points</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17cuvcq/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2023/k5tw84x/)

Reddit is sunsetting community points across cryptocurrency ethrader, and Fortnite BR... I don’t know what the next move will be for the project as a whole, but I’m still very very happy. We did not get involved with such a centralized mess of points and karma

Moon price dumped big time prior to the announcement also which speculated the moderators had inside her information this was going to happen on /r/cryptocurrency and Fortnitebr specifically.

that’s all speculation based on a tweet I’ve ever had that. Showed the timing of everything.  /u/spacesider hear anything like that?

<https://x.com/DegenerateNews/status/1714353397330002253?s=20>

Edit...ethtrader too <https://reddit.com/r/ethtrader/s/mxYAn7ShXP>

Double edit... holy shit looking through those subs and the amount of fighting and pissed off people over something we all knew years ago, was going to ruin the Reddit experience.

passing up that opportunity was the best thing moderators here could’ve done because it is a complete train wreck now over there in those other subs . 

also, Reddit red hats have just created such a catastrophe by not seeing this through or figuring out the token mechanics of it .... they basically told the moderators it was going to be over in a month and that was that. They should’ve just rugged everybody equally the same time but they didn’t.  

and just don’t understand why they didn’t put more effort into figuring out the token mechanics. Who knows it was probably because of all the discord pump groups that are being talked about as well with the vote manipulation. Color me shocked. ... maybe it was a regulatory thing.... who knows but there was not enough effort to see it through after such a long, hard road of picking out which layer two to use, etc..

Watch those communities evaporate quickly. I have no doubt they will probably see a good 75 to 80% less traffic because of all the click farm activity and Discord vote manipulation tactics.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Spacesider explains his perspective of the Reddit Moons rug as an r/CC mod</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17dlmmp/daily_general_discussion_october_22_2023/k5z555t/)

[There was a post in yesterdays daily regarding Reddit community points](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17cuvcq/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2023/k5tw84x/) and JT tagged me and asked for my input, and I have only seen the post just now, so I will follow up in today's daily for greater visibility /u/jtnichol 

--------

Basically, we were both privately and abruptly told by the admins that community points are getting killed and they will be no more in just a few weeks. 1 hour later the admins shared this information to the wider community. So /r/CryptoCurrency mods knew about this before everyone else, as well as the mods also over at /r/FortNiteBR and /r/ethtrader too as they also have RCP. (Reddit community points).

[Well, some mods used this private information to their own personal advantage and decided to sell, because the price was going to obviously crash when it was to be made public one hour later.](https://np.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrencyMeta/comments/17b8lqe/a_list_of_the_mods_who_did_and_didnt_dump_their/). Some more information in that link.

It's also been reported on two big websites if anyone want additional details.

<https://www.theblock.co/post/258476/pair-of-reddit-mods-appear-to-have-sold-off-tokens-ahead-of-announcement-to-terminate-blockchain-based-program>

<https://cointelegraph.com/news/reddit-mods-dumped-tokens-hours-before-blockchain-program-termination>

This is really *not* a good look and I have absolutely no idea what (If any) potential consequences of this is going to be. My personal thoughts on the matter?

When RCP's were first announced (Around half a year prior to me becoming a mod), [I voiced my concerns as a comment on the announcement.](https://np.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/comments/gj96lb/introducing_rcryptocurrency_moons/fqk4iay/)

Many years and countless hours later from everyone involved, I must say that it is still sad to see it go because this could have been a huge opportunity for Reddit to make web 3 way more mainstream than it currently is. So this is probably going to set things back a bit for us. I guess Reddit are only focused on money though and if it initiatives like this can't bring them in more money (Probably due to rumours about how they want to IPO), then they will be axed to make things look prettier for investors. So probably the entire Reddit platform might go in an entirely new direction.

We did ask if the smart contract could potentially get handed over to the mods for us to continue in our own capacity, but the admins haven't said anything back to us about this. 

I guess now that upvotes are not monetised anymore there will be a big drop in comments and in theory an increase in quality, as all the people who participated only to farm karma will now (hopefully) move onto other more productive things. I guess time will tell!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/silentjxhn shares an excerpt from an artist who praises the advantages of NFT art</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17dlmmp/daily_general_discussion_october_22_2023/k612joj/)

I find this so fucking weird. The artists that *have* branched into NFTs love it from what it seems.

> I get 100% of the primary sales. Galleries take 50%. For the entire month of July I sold a teeshirt. $20. [Reddit's Collectable Avatar] program allows me to make art every day.

> ...before this project I was pretty against NFTs for all the obvious reasons that most people are. Mainly the predatory, mlm scamming structure that turned a lot of people off to them. But people need to know that this project is far more like patreon, your purchase goes right to the artist. You see an artist you like and want to aid them? you throw them a couple bucks. To be honest seeing the resales was even a surprise to me. But I don’t see it that different than any other form of investing, it’s all numbers on a screen to me. I would, however encourage people to not get over their heads and play it safe. Please don’t gamble your life away.

> I actually intend to recycle my earnings into putting on art shows and installations myself. I’m sick of begging galleries for attention, I’m just gunna rent out warehouses and do it myself and invite the public to see. Not only did this program free me from the extreme stress of trying to make rent, it allows me to circumvent the dusty old gate keeping artworld and do what I want to: to show the whole world my art. This program is dope as shit.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/domotheus does an AMA on statelessness and verkle trees</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17ecnkq/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2023/k657ptv/)

I'm currently writing an article about statelessness/verkle trees, trying to do the same thing I did for [blobspace](https://domothy.com/blobspace/) where I start from the very ground up to explain the problem and the solution. 

I guess most ethfinanciers are already familiar with a good chunk of the "from the ground up" section, but it doesn't hurt to see where some confusion remains. So I'm trying something here: AMA about statelessness and stuff and I'll try to answer and it'll be mutually beneficial and what not

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheCryptosAndBloods finds an excerpt which sums up an all too common occurrence</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17ecnkq/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2023/k63cafn/)

Excerpt below from a newsletter I get called The Defi Edge - it is uncanny how exactly it describes me and my behaviour in the last 2 cycles. Like he could literally have been writing my story. 

Anyone else do this?

Waiting patiently for the next cycle to (I hope) do what I didn't, the first two times:
---
"Have you ever heard that it takes roughly 3 Crypto cycles before you "make it"?

You're an idiot in the 1st cycle. You're figuring out all the basic concepts. You trust influencers a little bit more than you should. 

4 years later...

You're smarter in the 2nd cycle, but you become a little too overconfident. You think, "This time, it's different." You're not taking profits like you should and mis-time the market cycle.

4 years later...

The 3rd cycle. You either "make it," or you repeat the same mistakes.
Notice the 4 years part.

This isn't League of Legends or Chess, where you can play every day if you want to. The bull market tends to come once every 4 years on average. So, your "feedback loops" are slower."

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/FernadoPoo has a call to action for Americans</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17f4y90/daily_general_discussion_october_24_2023/k693fv9/)

[The US Government is Trying to Kill Crypto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i4SJHTi7jLo)
latest Bankless podcast.

If you are a U.S. citizen, give the IRS and Treasury what for using the AI tool
https://treasuryraid.lexpunk.army/

You have seven days.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth talks about the fun aspect of solo staking</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17fx5jb/daily_general_discussion_october_25_2023/k6grb7a/)

I'm surprised staking hasn't gotten more degen light. All you see is like 3.7% APR when you solo stake bluh bluh. Yes, that's helpful and that's too intellectual. 

Why wouldnt we just make it intellectual cause we can calc averages etc etc and move on? well that's how I did it too but staking isnt just that for humans. 

Let me explain a bit more. 

Staking has consistent rewards which are quite negligible unless you are a whale but you get some passive income and that feels stable, secure and good and it can even attract the crowd that does FatFIRE and all that stuff in tradfi. 

However, there's more to staking. There's a sync committee which is again more stable gains while you are there yet the key part is that it's random occurrence in one's process. 

And the ultimate form of dopamine rewarding would be a block proposal. Timing of that is random (yes there's a probability the same way there's a probability in blackjack or roulette) and on top of that - the reward is random! So you are basically having a chance at winning the lottery (also way better chances than in real lottery) and you get to play it for free!! Well, kind of. You have to stake. 

So unless you are a big corporate entity or in a smoothing pool (altho that would still apply to some degree but not so much), just the possibility of having stability (thru regular attestations) + some occasional bonus for doing the job well (sync comm) + free lotto tickets that can be lifechanging (block proposals) !!! I feel like if more people knew this was the case instead of just boring APY part they might've been staking purely in hopes of degening in a smart way (since you lotto tickets are free) and helping out the decentralization in the process. 

Anyways, im curious what has your experience been like? do you feel some excitement staking or at least whenever you get notifications about sync comm + proposing blocks? if not, how does it make you feel then?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/anderspatriksvensson is withdrawing their stETH and explains the process</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/17f4y90/daily_general_discussion_october_24_2023/k67z378/)

I am moving out of Lido and decided to "Withdraw" instead of trade out my stEth.  They say this may take 1-4 days.  Anyone build any good way to more accurately predict when my withdrawal will take place and be ready to claim? I'm patient but just wondering if there's a better estimate somewhere...

EDIT: Little more research.  So Lido creates an NFT that is minted the second you create a withdraw request.  The NFT is then "transferred"  and burned once the eth is ready to claim and claimed.  So with a little bit of guessing, you can see when the last "transfer" was and how long it took between their mint and the transfer and guesstimate.  [Example of one](https://etherscan.io/nft/0x889edC2eDab5f40e902b864aD4d7AdE8E412F9B1/12919) that has been minted and transferred.  About  5 days and 9 hours from request withdraw to being claimed.  Of course it might have been ready at 4 days and it took 1 day and 9 hours for the user to claim it... Anyway, I wait patiently :)  I feel better doing a withdraw and knowing the stETH is being burned instead of transferred onto someone else.

</details>
