---
layout: markdown
date: 2023-01-20
episode: 3
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10gp4if/daily_general_discussion_january_20_2023/j54ybqo/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W4T2x_TomXA
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/97630
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: Meme from u/pr0nh0li0 who stole it from Hsaka</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10ezr5l/daily_general_discussion_january_18_2023/j4w2xtd/)

[Lmao](https://i.imgur.io/FjUSp0V_d.webp?maxwidth=640&shape=thumb&fidelity=medium)

[Stolen from Hsaka](https://twitter.com/hsakatrades/status/1615761877199355915)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10d6prc/daily_general_discussion_january_16_2023/j4n4lza/)

*Network density,*

*Half a million validate,*

*For security.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/Tricky_Troll decides now is a good time to reflect on the good, the bad and the ugly of how he played the last bull market</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/109rzd5/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2023/j40rrwq/)

**Disclaimer: This is a long-winded reflective post. Skip to the end if you would prefer a TL;DR.**

Now is the perfect time to reflect on your own personal wins and regrets from the bull market just gone. It's quiet, fundamentals are showing strong with Ethereum's strength above $1,000 and a bottom feels like it may have formed. Don't @ me if I jinxed it.

Personally, I'd give myself a 5/10. Overall I did ok.

**The Good:**

My early bull run strategy was good. I sold the last of my Bitcoin after its initial run to $30K/40K as the first part of taking profits. I splashed out on a couple of things I'd been wanting for a while and I diversified into to physical assets as well as leaving some aside for paying tax (just not quite enough in the end 🙃). Also, losses which will be covered in "The Ugly" were kept to a responsible (enough) % of my stack and I did not double down or try to gamble back shitcoin losses. Losses were accepted and rational portfolio allocations were stuck to. Once the shitcoins went to Goblintown, my precious ETH stack was left untouched.

Finally, I managed to hit my 32 ETH target and run a solo validator node. It was a lot of learning for me but solo staking is very satisfying and worth the effort.

**The Less Good:**

I sold all of my shitcoins and was full ETH by the time the bear market kicked in to 5th gear. This allowed me to fund quitting my job temporarily to go to Hodlercon and do a long delayed trip with my family in the UK. I should have sold these earlier but I managed to shake these bags before we entered Goblintown.

**The Bad:**

I had a cash out plan and my target was not hit as I was hoping. My cash out plan evolved after an event I will cover in the next section. The bad thing is that part of my target was hit and I did nothing about it.

**The Ugly:**

35% of my stack was lost to shitcoins in 2020 and DeFi coins in 2021. Overconfidence from picking out Chainlink in the 2018 bear and then selling the top in late 2019/early 2020 contributed to this greatly. It was a humbling experience but also, unfortunately this loss of 35% of my stack was the reason why my cash out target was not hit. I had a set $ amount I wanted to sell (which would be hit at around a $4.5K ETH) or when a bunch of my favourite indicators on <https://www.LookIntoBitcoin.com> flashed sell. After losing the 35%, the cash out amount crept up since I had less ETH to sell (it went up to about a $9K ETH). Due to the elongated nature of the late bull run, less than half of the sell indicators I was following flashed sell. I tried to time the peak too close. As a result, the peak I expected never came and I never sold when I should have.

**Learnings:**

So what have I learned and what can you learn from me? My first piece of advice is never to double down to re-coup losses. After I lost my shitcoin stack I was tempted to double down and I had other coins lined up. But guess what, those coins did terribly. I would have only lost more ETH and wouldn't be solo staking today. Set aside a portion of your stack to leave invested in ETH for the long run. Do not waver from this allocation. If you find that hard, maybe staking is for you. A 16 ETH rETH minipool or 32 ETH solo node cannot be partially sold. It's a great way to keep assets locked in for your long term investment thesis, also earn a yield and of course help to decentralise Ethereum!

Secondly, I think it's important to stick to a cash out plan. Furthermore, I think laddering out is better too. It's easy to want to hit a target but this market is too unpredictable to rely on such a hit or miss strategy. Everyone is different, so I don't think this strategy suits everyone but if you are someone with a cash out plan, I'd recommend sticking to it and I'd also recommend having multiple targets over a single cash out price.

My final piece of advice is to stay humble and stay cautious. Now that I have experienced the feeling of winning a big bet on one of just 2 altcoins to go on a big run up last bear market and subsequently thinking I'm a genius and can do it again, I see this attitude everywhere. Look at Do Kwon or any of the has beens last bull run. They think they can make a comeback and are trying to build up their redemption arcs. They got lucky. Then they got overconfident and greedy. Then the market turned and their shenanigans that they thought was proof they were geniuses revealed that they really aren't any better than the rest of us. In fact, they're worse. At least I kept my losses limited and didn't keep leveraging up. Keeping my bullishness and self-confidence in check is the only reason I didn't lose it all. There were definitely points where I wanted to go all in on my shitcoins but I didn't because I knew it was irresponsible.

Anyway, I apologise for the long-winded nature of this post. I don't really have the time today to flesh it out into a nice concise ordered write up. I guess I'll leave you with a TL;DR instead.

TL;DR:

- Stay humble. Watch out for the trap of over-confidence after you make a smart investment or two thinking you can do it again. Chances are you can't.
- Keep responsible allocations. I'd have lost it all had I not resisted the urge to double down in an effort to recoup losses. Running a staking node can help with this.
- I recommend cash out plans and sticking to them. Furthermore, laddered cash out plans help protect against uncertainty. My all or nothing plan has left me frustrated and short on liquidity in this bear.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/696_eth reminds us of some tips to keep our crypto assets safe and secure</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/109rzd5/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2023/j40d0kx/)

**hardware wallet is a MUST** if you have more than $2k in crypto and you are not cashing that out right now and leaving.

**Transfer your valuable NFTs from hot/burner to COLD (hardware) wallet**. While Gas is still quite cheap at night US time/morning EU time. You can bundle (x20 items) thru OS. Yes, you might end up paying like 0.01-0.02e per transfer.

Another good practice is to use revoke . cash 's application and also remove permissions from time to time.

I know to most people it's a given but I keep seeing people getting hacked here and there and I'd rather remind again. And your not garbage NFTs are valuable to! so remember that. Trust me, it might suck and feel like unnecessary investment and use of money transferring assets but you'd be happy you still have all your stuff cause for non-hardware wallets it's not IF it's WHEN you'll lose it all so act accordingly.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>OPSEC: u/RooftopPortaPotty investigates the Revoke.Cash extension and reveals some privacy concerns</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10amvdl/daily_general_discussion_january_13_2023/j47tn1w/)

The following will serve as an *extremely* abbreviated version of my research into the revoke.cash browser extension, focusing as narrowly on privacy as I can.

Obviously we're taking a different direction here, as this is clearly not a wallet. However, I think its fair to say that this one is particularly relevant to my ethfinanciers.

Revoke.cash was downloaded directly from the chrome [webstore](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/revokecash-web3-scam-prot/nmniboccheadcclilkfkonokbcoceced?hl=en)

<https://imgur.com/CRRvUfJ>

Starting off, the extension's privacy tab on the chrome webstore page looks good. No data collection is always good to see.

<https://imgur.com/qw2xLIY>

Immediately upon installation we see this POST request to Amplitude, an analytics platform.

There are a few identifiers, including 'user_id', 'device_id', 'session_id', and 'insert_id'. Not so great.

And the keen reader may notice the fields 'initial_referrer', and 'initial_referring_domain'. The values here are 'EMPTY', but I take massive issue with this in the case that they are ever used to collect that data.

If they're going to be collecting your [referer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_referer) header, the least they could do is misspell it as the HTTP spec does haha.

I will go into how the extension functions in a more extensive revision, which will include a review of some crypto scams, and a taste of malware analysis.

But this single request to Amplitude got me wondering what happens when I visit <https://revoke.cash> using my everyday use firefox installation, with only uBlock Origin and NoScript enabled.

<https://imgur.com/xtgQ1KM>

Here we see a request to hxxps://scripts.simpleanalyticscdn.com/latest.js - An obvious tracker, BOOM instantly killed by NoScript

Worth noting that I did not see a request to this domain when using the extension.

<https://imgur.com/O01Qczo>

Here we see a javascript file trying attempting to force my browser to generate POST requests to 127.0.0.1:8545

Either way, killed by NoScript.

Maybe theres some extension functionality that its trying to interact with?

<https://imgur.com/jwoL55B>

On the bottom right of the page you can see those connections are refused, even with the extension in use. Odd.

<https://imgur.com/dXONMEH>

Back to firefox, we see a request to amplitude just as generated by the extension. However, this time uBlock killed that attempt.

I keep harping on the fact that by installing extensions, you allow them to completely bypass protections such as NoScript and uBlock Origin.

Be careful out there, folks

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/SwagtimusPrime WANTS YOU to contribute to the Ethereum KZG ceremony!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10amvdl/daily_general_discussion_january_13_2023/j47dmss/)

gm gentlemen,

a quick reminder about the KZG ceremony: <https://ceremony.ethereum.org/>

You can help by contributing your randomness to the whole thing. The more people participate the better, as it only takes one honest person to make the whole thing a success.

It's really easy and fast to do. All you need is an Ethereum wallet address with more than 3 transfers, and then it's just writing some random text and signing a bunch of messages and you're already done. The whole process takes <2 minutes.

You'll get a POAP too, so get going and help secure & scale Ethereum! This will be used for the danksharding implementation later on.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/RooftopPortaPotty gets thanked by u/interweaver for their security analyses with a great explanation why they are so important</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10bh29t/daily_general_discussion_january_14_2023/j4cj8yx/)

> To make an analogy, your posts about security analysis, and potentially teaching us to do those kinds of investigations ourselves, play the same role in the broader ecosystem that fraud proofs do on optimistic rollups. If you start with a trusted system, and the system is honest, then all is well and good, but if they're not honest, and nobody is checking on them, then they can get away with anything. For such a system to become trustless, you need a sufficient number of capable fraud-checkers who are checking often enough such that there's a near-certainty someone would catch malfeasance if it were present. The more people capable of checking ecosystem tools to see if they're doing bad things, the more trustless the ecosystem becomes. It's really crucial

- [/u/interweaver](https://reddit.com/u/interweaver) on EVM discord

Beautifully put. To this end, I will be putting together a guide detailing exactly the steps I have been taking, along with resources, and assistance wherever needed. The vast majority of the process is non-technical, just critical thinking with an almost cynical mindset haha.

I previously announced that I will be releasing a more in-depth review of revoke.cash, where this extension will also be used as we explore a variety of interesting crypto scams.

If you're interested in learning more about infosec in a very easy to digest fashion, I would recommend checking that out when it is released.

I have also promised an analysis of [Fire](https://www.joinfire.xyz/).

No commitment to any particular order can be made, but these are all on my plate.

This is last call for requests, before I leave this up to the community to continue.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/davidahoffman shares his perspective on recent criticisms of Bankless</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10cc78w/daily_general_discussion_january_15_2023/j4fzd5q/)

Hey Fam

There was a comment a few days ago in the daily about me tweeting about JPEGs, and also the frequent “Bankless has too many ads!” Take

I typed out a pretty thorough response, as it’s stuff I hear a lot and also I think is shortsighted. Since the comment was 3 days ago, it’s buried to the depths of Reddit, so I wanted to draw attention to it here:

<https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/108x76j/daily_general_discussion_january_11_2023/j4d8cqf/>

Would love y’all’s thoughts / feedback.

Love you guys

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/Spacesider shares his staking experience and tips for anyone else experiencing similar issues</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10cc78w/daily_general_discussion_january_15_2023/j4frjwo/)

So a little something regarding how my staking experience is going.

Prior to the merge I was running Geth on one SSD and Lighthouse on another SSD.

My attestation performance was fairly good, consistently around 97-98%. Back then you didn't rely on the execution client for attesting, just for block proposals, so it wasn't a huge deal if it couldn't keep up.

Coming up to the merge I moved away from Geth and installed Nethermind on the same drive as Lighthouse, and on the other drive installed Teku-Besu (As a fallback pair).

Now with both a consensus client and execution client on the same SSD, and an execution being a requirement, it can't quite keep up. Attestation performance is averaging around 93-94% and I am seeing the occasional message pop up in my logs stating that the execution engine is not in sync.

I've been putting off addressing this for the longest time... But I figure better now than never!

I've ordered an NVMe that has 10x the read/write speeds and 10x the IOPS of the current SSD's I have. Hopefully in the next week I will get it and install it and move the primary pair (Lighthouse-Nethermind) across.

If anyone else has been getting poor attestation performance, this may be something to look into.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Random: u/benido2030 shares their learnings from 2022</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10d6prc/daily_general_discussion_january_16_2023/j4ktvza/)

I wrote a long post about my [learnings](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/rpgcip/daily_general_discussion_december_27_2021/hq4yyqn/) at the end of 2021. That was (in hindsight) after we had peaked and I think it's just reasonable to update that post and include my 2022 learnings.

1. **Don't invest in last cycles coins** - Still very valid, and probably even more important now that we might be on the verge of recovering and potentially starting a new cycle.
1. **Understand the narrative** - This one is tricky. I think when I wrote this in 2021 I thought by just understanding the narrative and being early you will print. True is: narratives are important, but most likely (at least for me) only really relevant in a bull market. Or the other way around: Narratives are nice in bear market, but that doesn't mean they will safe you. E.g. There was a "real yield" season and GMX did hold pretty nicely, but it's probably an exception. Other narratives didn't help me at all. This leads to:
1. **NEW: In a bear you gotta be patient (and buy ETH)** - Now this sounds crazy, but I really think this might be the biggest learning from the last 12 months. Fade narratives in bear market. Sell last cycles coins. All of them. Don't think they will recover, because even if they do, they will lose vs ETH and you can increase your holdings if you really want to double down. I kept two tokens and let me tell you I am not happy :)
Buy ETH whenever you feel like it (longterm it's most likely a good buy). But also with ETH, be patient, history maybe doesn't repeat but it rhymes. E.g. I bought the bottom at 800$, but I also made some more buys in the other crashes at e.g. 1750. Why? Because of "FOMO", being scared it could immediately pump - which it usually doesn't in a real bear market. There is capitulation in a crash and a time based capitulation. And YES! I know that I / we don't know. And maybe next cycle is different. Still I think understanding what patience means is important.
1. **NEW: Make a bear an opportunity** - This is kind of connected to the the old 6. "Take profits". I think that's still very important: having cash on the sidelines means a crash/ dip might even have a positive side, both for your portfolio but also (and maybe more important) emotionally.
But I think I would go even further: I sold most of my alts in Feb 22. I felt I was late, didn't sell the top, bla bla. In hindsight I think that move wasn't bad at all. But I could have even shorted last cycles trash. Not in a day trading way, but as in shorting and forgetting the short. I was so impressed by some people (especially the Luna short from 100$ to 0 from that one guy that covered his short for 42cents in the end). I know I can't do that, I know he's probably one in a 1000, but I also think there is a valid way that includes shorting when you feel the bear has really arrived.
1. **You can't predict crypto short term, NEW: you can predict crypto long term** - I am more convinced than ever that this is the case and I also think that doesn't really contradict anything I have said before :) But the more important part of this is: I am sure we can predict crypto long term. I'll probably write about this soon, but e.g. "execution layers" aka "L2s" are alpha. Modular blockchains are alpha. ETH as the one global settlement layer is alpha. I can't imagine that L2 tokens won't pump. I am long OP and will try to go long with other L2 tokens, either by buying or CDP.
1. **Finance is a different world** - Still valid, still learning so much, see 4.
1. **Take profits** - I didn't take many profits apart from the alts in Feb, so I sucked here. I was too bullish. I was hoping for 10k ETH, 100k BTC etc. etc. So I am planning profit taking now. I am trying to estimate valid prices to exit certain positions, e.g. by understanding what certain prices say about my tokens, I compare them to evaluations of last cycle (example: If OP reached 20$ that would mean 80B FDV which is close to SOLs mcap last cycle - and I think that's already bullish, even if it's just 10x, compared to SOLs 100x) and try to be more realistic and less emotional when it comes to taking profits. I think I was driven by greed and euphoria last cycle and will try to change this going into 2023 and 2024.

I have some goals for the next 24-36 months and hope that reflecting on my learnings will help me to make stuff happen. Will it be as easy as I think? Def not (but I also don't think it is as easy as it might sound here!). But I want to grow, improve, challenge myself, so we need goals to measure success :)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/etheraider has a message from the EVM stewards giving out free EVMavericks t-shirts at ETHDenver!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10e4kij/daily_general_discussion_january_17_2023/j4qeo8i/)

Free EVMavericks Tees for ETHDenver!

Hope everyone is pumped for the conference!

If you happen to be going and hold an EVM, we will be ordering EVMavericks tees free for anyone that wants one for the conference! (fyi, First come first serve, there will be a max # of tees ordered)

To sign up, just drop your size and pick up your tee at the conference (no doxxing): <https://discord.com/channels/963992696387694592/1064925676479729>

We'll also get some laptop stickers made for anybody that wants one! (No EVM necessary)

There will also be a few ethfinance & evmaverick hang outs planned for ETHDenver, so be sure to check those out if you're going! Details to come!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Community: u/pbrody shares the latest updates on Nightfall hitting the mainstream media!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/10ezr5l/daily_general_discussion_january_18_2023/j4wdrxx/)

Greetings all...there's been great coverage on the Nightfall privacy announcement. I've got a consolidate list of the links we hit:

PR: <https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the-ey-and-polygon-organizations-update-source-code-for-blockchain-privacy-based-protocol-nightfall-301724406.html>

Bloomberg: <https://news.bloombergtax.com/financial-accounting/ey-polygon-update-privacy-based-blockchain-protocol-on-ethereum>

Coindesk: <https://www.coindesk.com/business/2023/01/18/ey-and-polygon-ready-privacy-focused-ethereum-for-enterprise-release/>

From my POV, a good day here. Made great progress getting everyone at EY on the same page. Much love to the EthFinance community...

</details>
