---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-09-27
episode: 80
guest: Mark Richardson
guest_topic: "[Carbon DeFi](http://carbondefi.xyz), an automation tool for onchain trading"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fqg5x4/comment/lp6cz92/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MizNJbtfEq0
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fqg5x4/comment/lp52uhf/)

[u/DayTraderBiH](https://reddit.com/u/DayTraderBiH)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2645.30

[u/M4gelock](https://reddit.com/u/M4gelock)

> 0.04053 grandpas

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 90,891 hodlers subscribed! (+8)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fowp6i/comment/lox9j95/)

*Caroline got two,*

*Crypto market bumps into,*

*Sam is a crook too.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/KotMyNetchup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fowp6i/comment/louw7x3/)

Even Google realizes the price is never going to change.

---

Context: When you google "eth price" it was stuck on September 14th's price, this feature has since been removed all together while remaining for BTC 😔

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll celebrates being on the receiving end of the EthFinance community's incredible generosity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1flvgzu/daily_general_discussion_september_21_2024/lo624a0/)

Oh my god you guys. Who's cutting onions in here? 🥹

[Yes I'm coming to Hodlercon now!!!](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fl4c68/daily_general_discussion_september_20_2024/lo1w0kc/) I am at a loss for words with your generosity! I am so grateful to be a part of this wonderful community and the doots won't die until this subreddit dies or I do... (unless Reddit nukes my account or something, but I'm sure I'd find a way around it though). Anyway, through the incredibly kind funding, raising 1.2 ETH from from u/superphiz, u/allinat40, u/haurog, u/alexiskef, u/shiftli, u/KuDeTa, u/Gumpa-Bucky, u/austonst and u/da3vr, I will absolutely be seeing you all in Phuket!

As a token of my appreciation I will be sending out a POAP soon (please DM me if you donated from a CEX or not your POAP wallet with your preferred wallet). I also have some ideas for a special something to give each of you in person (please let me know if any of you won't be at Hodlercon). Nothing big, but hopefully something meaningful, think of it like a physical POAP. No promises just yet but I've got an idea of something I may be able to do.

I have already checked and I can definitely change my flight for minimal extra cost. I still need to figure out the logistics, ie can I fly out of Phuket to Aus/NZ or do I need to go back to Bangkok but it seems I can change my flight and get credit for another flight for no extra cost! This just leaves any extra cost for getting to Phuket, the Hodlercon ticket, accommodation, food and airport parking for an extra week. All of which I have no reason to believe will go over my newly increased budget.

I also just want to say it was impressive/bold of you all to remember/have faith that tricky.eth was indeed my address. I have rarely mentioned that and it could've gone very wrong if you had the wrong address haha.

Finally, I just want to say that this community never disappoints and all of the work being done around the doots now with the podcast is incredibly motivating for me. I love to see the awesome things coming to fruition out from this community and I hope this is just the beginning.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BuyETHorDAI reviews the Ethereum film</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1flvgzu/daily_general_discussion_september_21_2024/lo9bg72/)

Just watched the documentary about Ethereum and Vitalik. I thought it was pretty good overall. There's a great scene with a recording of Charles crying about how he won't become a CEO because Ethereum is going to be a public good (I'm paraphrasing). Gave me a good chuckle. The movie is here <https://ethereumfilm.xyz/>. Costs $20 in ETH for a streaming ticket, but this is stuff I like to see onchain, so props.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog covers some big Pectra changes</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fncsy5/daily_general_discussion_september_23_2024/lohnj3l/)

In the all Core Devs Consensus call last Thursday they discussed the size of the upcoming Pectra Fork. They pretty much decided to make the Pectra fork much smaller again and split it into two hard forks. In essence all the EIPs that are currently being live on devnets (i.e. internal testnets) will be bundled into the first upgrade, whereas anything not part of these devnets will get its own hard fork later on. The reasoning is that the EIPs that are currently tested will soon be ready for public testnets and then mainnet. Waiting for the other EIPs to be ready would delay these upgrades by several months. More details about the reasoning can be found here: <https://hackmd.io/@ralexstokes/rJVuKtlpR>

As it currently stands it is planned to have the the following EIPS in Pectra 1

- EIP-2537: Precompile for BLS12-381 curve operations

- EIP-2935: Save historical block hashes in state

- EIP-6110: Supply validator deposits on chain

- EIP-7002: Execution layer triggerable exits

- EIP-7251: Increase the MAX_EFFECTIVE_BALANCE

- EIP-7549: Move committee index outside Attestation

- EIP-7685: General purpose execution layer requests

- EIP-7702: Set EOA account code for one transaction

Most important for stakers are the maxEB (EIP 7251) and EL triggerable exits (EIP 7002) changes. These two allow a single validator to have up to 2048 ETH in balance and the advantage that one can trigger a validator exit by signing a message from the withdrawal address. The account abstraction EIP (7702) is interesting as it allows and EOA account to behave like a smart contract account. There is also the discussion to include a smaller change which would increase the Blob target and max from the current 3/6 to either 4/6 or higher numbers. But there is no consensus about this yet.  

Notably absent from this list are the bigger EIPs (PeerDAS and EOF). This means we are pretty much at the size of Pectra as it was initially planned (until May 2024), right before the size blew up massively by including PeerDAS and EOF. The plan is to have the first upgrade at the beginning of next year (q1/q2) whereas the second upgrade with PeerDAS and EOF would be at the end of next year. Obviously this still is in discussion so details might change. No idea what this means for the already scoped Verkle tree upgrade which is a large execution layer change which was planned to come afterwards. I guess the next few weeks will give more clarity.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 starts a discussion about decentralised sequencers for L2s</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fo4r11/daily_general_discussion_september_24_2024/lonpou1/)

The [bankless episode with Mike Neuder](https://www.bankless.com/in-defense-of-the-ethereum-roadmap-mike-neuder) was pretty interesting. I am not yet done, but one thing caught my attention: I think we discussed centralized sequencers here probably years ago and pointed out that these aren't perfect, but that we expect some L2s to have only one sequencer that will do all the work and that there will be some decentralized L2s. My mental model from these discussions was "there will be a bit of everything". 

Mike yesterday basically said that he expects "all" (most) L2s to have a decentralized sequencer **and** that it is the best strategy for them, because they won't be more decentralized than L1, inherit all the necessary properties from l1 and shouldn't even try emphasize that dimension. His conclusion is more or less that real-time censorship resistance is cool (which is the result of decentralized sequencing), but it's probably not as important with the possibility of forced inclusion via L1. 

Is a decentralized sequencer only important in our bubble? The more I think about, the more I believe it is - and we are a niche, so developing for us and similar users might be good enough for one or two L2s, but that's it. So will we see 99.9% of the sequencers running on one machine?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 makes an observation about the supply and demand of blockspace</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fo4r11/daily_general_discussion_september_24_2024/loppxf9/)

<https://warpcast.com/growthepie/0xd8c82434>

It's gonna keep happening. Excess supply of blockspace will eventually be gobbled up. Even if it's to do the same stuff but leaner, easier, more user friendly.

<https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/14l05iz/daily_general_discussion_june_28_2023/jptzgx4/>

> Even without new use cases that are brought forward with cheaper blockspace, which I think there are, there is a lot of pent-up blockspace demand in the form of better UX and easier to write code.
> 
> We saw something similar with our computers and the internet. As the resources available were scaled up, the computers didn't get much faster to do the same things we were doing. And web pages didn't load up faster. Instead, a lot of those extra new resources went into nicer UX and cheaper/easier to deliver code. We are in the era of smart contract programmers thinking long and hard about how they implement the functionality to minimize gas costs, looking at OPCODES and trying find microoptimizations to squeeze those extra gas savings. There was a time when programmers thought long and hard about the performance of their applications and would often go to assembly to optimize them. For most use cases programmers don't do that anymore because CPU cycles have become so cheap that it's silly to optimize for that. The same will happen with blockspace, as it becomes cheaper and cheaper we will start to use it less efficiently in exchange for improved UX or easier code.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/PhiMarHal covers a bit of a brick wall for hobbyist developers</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fo4r11/daily_general_discussion_september_24_2024/loqy6yd/)

As a casual hobbyist developer, I keep hitting a wall at the block explorer verification step.

You can write just about any smart contract idea you have by messing around in Remix IDE. You can deploy it to the blockchain. It will run on its own forever on a permissionless network for everyone to interact with. Thirdparties can even build more stuff on top of your contracts. Amazing!

But the moment you want to make your code easy to check on a centralized block explorer? There's this huge skill bump, where you need to use the command line, install git/nodejs/npm/truffle/hardhat/scoop/foundry and a million of other things, and none of it works anyway.

Well, I say "you", it is of course "me", dumb old me who never gets this stuff.

But, still, isn't this wild? Intuitively it feels like the hard part would be, you know, building the actual thing? Rather than proving the thing you built is what you say it is. 

Imports used to be my main grievance. Now I'm discovering the fresh hell that is --via-ir verification. At least now I have AI... To help me fail faster.

-- edit: finally found a way! Nothing like a good rant in public to have a breakthrough.

For any other tortured soul who might end up in the same situation, the working path was

1) "generate contract metadata" ticked on in Remix IDE

2) get the giganormous hexadecimal .json in artifacts/build-info folder

3) crop its contents to keep just the "language", "settings" and "sources" bits

4) on the block explorer verification page, use Solidity Standard-Json-Input in the compiler type dropdown panel

5) It Just Works.

The world is saved. Praise Vitalik. Praise all of you. I love you all. Good night.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nick_badlands rambles about where we are this cycle</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fl4c68/daily_general_discussion_september_20_2024/lo4i1s5/)

> "It's different this time"

Just sharing some ramblings to help me solidify my theory on where we go from here.

I was a bit worried for a while, when the hype of the Bitcoin ETFs was going on it all got a bit too excited, too quick for me for a while, I was slightly concerned the 4 year cycle wasn't gonna happen as usual.

We seem to be back on course.  Bitcoin still rules the jungle (for now) so what is happening with it still matters deeply for Ethereum.  

Rate cuts have started in the US, the rest of the world has largely yet to follow course but they will as the cycle turns.  Gold is rising and Peter Schiff is getting all excited about it but what usually follows after this is Bitcoin making him eat his words.  Pretty sure this will happen again.

In my gut, I think there is one more big drop still to come, there is usually some event that scares people witless before we go to Valhalla.  Would love to be wrong on this and we go straight there from this but it fits the usual pattern.  From there we start marching on with Bitcoin leading the charge.

Next what happens is money starts to look elsewhere and the fabled Altcoin season has its time to shine.  I think Ethereum will start attracting attention sooner rather than later and considering the hate it seems to be getting lately, it will be a glorious, hated rally by those who miss out.  

I'm sure others will pump but I'm not worried by the likes of Solana etc.  It's still a centralised shitcoin that's good for meme coins but anything else?  Pretty sure it will go the way of EoS, Cardano and all the other so called Eth killers in the long term.

I've been staying well way from buying any crypto other than BTC/ETH since the 2017 cycle and sure I've missed out on shit but I'm in it for the long haul.

We have ETH ETFs and we've moved to PoS so all those ESG/green funds can take part that can't in Bitcoin.

We have scale this time, L2s are growing and growing.

Crypto is getting easier and easier to use.

Still waiting to see what the next narrative will be, we had ICOs, DEFI, NFTs all started on Ethereum to kick things off before, what will be next?  Is it time for the long talked about real-world assets to enter the party this time?

Ignore all the noise, am pretty sure that we see a great bull market starting as per the usual 4 year cycle.  I might even sell some of my precious ETH for the first time this time around :)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog brings a write up expanding on the disconnect of knowledge on a recent podcast</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fowp6i/comment/lotrw6t/)

I have finished the recent bankless episode with Max Resnick called "Is the Ethereum Roadmap Off Track?": <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FLUJ0uLye0U>

I knew it will be difficult to listen to for me and I ranted about the guest a bit here before. It is mostly due to the guest being unable to contribute in any meaningful way to the discussion and making false statements everywhere. Now that I have finished it, my conclusion is: should we really listen to someone on their opinions about rollups who seems to have such a gross misunderstanding how this stuff works. He might have very good opinions about the MEV part of the roadmap or about auctions, I cannot judge that but he seems unable to understand how the rollup part really works.

I keep it to the largest issues I have heard and leave out many smaller wrong statements the guest made. To be very clear, my understanding of rollups has a lot of gaps, so please correct me if I am stating something wrong here I am eager to be corrected and learn. 

After the 55 minute mark he states

> ZK technology inherently compresses the state whereas the optimistic rollups have to put the transactions on chain and maybe they can run a little bit of compression but it's not nearly the amount of compression you can get with uh ZK roll up

Wrong. There is no compression in ZK technology used today in rollups. The zk part just gives a relatively short string of numbers and characters which prove that the ~~calculation~~ state transitions has been done right. There is no extractable information about the state in this proof. Both rollup types have to put all transactions on chain via blobs. Many people use the simplified term 'compression' to get the meaning across, but this is not an accurate description of what is happening in the case of ZK rollups. It really seems like Max took the marketing term of ZK is compression and went with it without understanding what is happening and to draw his conclusions based on this flawed understanding. To make matters worse optimistic rollups do have less overhead in the calldata as they do not have to publish a fraud proof. So it is actually the exact inverse from what he says. Don't get me wrong I am a big fan of zk rollups and really hope they will dominate in the coming years. Max is just wrong here from a technical point.

> let let me just be very precise that optimistic rollup does not actually substantially reduce the amount of bandwidth required

This is very wrong the bandwidth requirement can get reduced by the same amount in zk rollups and optimistic rollups. They both publish all transactions in the same way into blobs. They can employ the same optimization techniques to reduce the size of this blob data. Zk rollups have a slight overhead so use a bit more bandwidth. If he would have read/understood vitaliks post about rollups he would know that: <https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2021/01/05/rollup.html>

> like we can start to build uh ZK compression into the L1 as well and that would reduce the bandwidth requirements

Again the 'compression' which does not really exist. But on the L1 ZK technology can be used to massively reduce the bandwidth and still validate that the state transition has been applied correctly. The node would not know the actual state but it could validate that it is correct. Like the Mina L1 does zk proofs of their state transitions. So, the statement is only half wrong.

> from a bandwidth perspective you have almost the same usage from a optimistic L2 as you would if it was happening on the layer one and the only thing you're saving is on execution

Bandwidth argument is wrong, as explained above. One massively saves on execution in both cases of rollups though. 

I think his misunderstanding of the ZK part in zk rollups works fits into his initial rant at the beginning of the episode where he accused the EF and companies behind optimistic rollups to have pushed a roadmap which is against zk rollups. If one does not understand what zk rollups really need it is a bit bold to accuse someone of pushing a wrong roadmap which actually massively benefits zk rollups as well.

> we do need to take some tools from the newer blockchains one of them in particular is this kind of parallel execution

Parallel exection is already part of Besu: <https://besu.hyperledger.org/development/public-networks/concepts/parallel-transaction-execution>

> if optimism is not arbitrum then by the transitive property cannot also be the case that optimism is ethereum and arbitrum is ethereum because then arbitrum would be optimism this is like a fundamental contradiction

I am just weirded out by this statement as the transitive relation in mathematics is not really something I would apply here to try to prove something. It is pretty normal to have a  subgroup being part of a bigger group but two subgroups not being the same. I am thinking about the taxonomy hierarchy in biology. A lion and a tiger are not the same species, but they still belong to the same genus called 'panthera'. That is how I think about the Ethereum ecosystem and the rollups. This is not really an important statement by him it just shows that he is using vocabulary to sound more important but applying things in a way which does not really make too much sense. 

Rant finished. I now definitely have a worse opinion about him because he does hold strong opinions about things which he apparently does not really understand. This makes it very hard to judge if his opinions are worth considering as one cannot really say from his statements where the limit of his knowledge is. Everything has the same strong absolute language there is no nuance, nothing. And only if one perfectly understands the underlying technology one can judge if his statement makes sense. That is not very helpful for most people at all.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz says good bye to Danny Ryan(for now) through the help of POAPs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fpojgj/comment/lp0pocq/)

Yesterday I announced the "Goodbye Danny" POAP, it's a POAP to appreciate the contributions of Danny Ryan, the person who is most responsible for the Ethereum beacon chain as we know it. 

It's launching with a new POAP platform, called "Airship". Airship lets you send funds to an address to receive a POAP without the need to connect to any web3 browser wallet. Effectively, if you send 0.001 Ether (exactly $5.00 at today's prices) to theprotocolguild.eth on mainnet, you will receive the POAP in about a minute. This is kind of a cool evolution and I'm excited to see where it will go.

<https://airship.poap.xyz/danny>

\* Also, I definitely encourage gaming this to get the POAP with a minimal gas cost. How low can you go? The worst that could happen is a dropped tx and you can just try again later.

\*\* depending on how well you know this stuff, setting a very low gas price can effectively get your wallet stuck since all transactions are processed in order. There are ways around this, but i didn't want to surprise anyone.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard has some thoughts on EigenLayer's security model</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fowp6i/comment/lox135m/)

Some thoughts on [EigenLayer's Operator Set](https://www.blog.eigenlayer.xyz/introducing-the-eigenlayer-security-model/) security model.

AVSs assign operators to operating sets. I don't know if this means that by default all AVSs are whitelist only but it certainly reads that way. It's not the epitome of permissionless if true.

Stakers delegate stake to operators. How do stakers find an operator to delegate to? At the moment there's a list on the EigenLayer website which basically means EigenLayer can exclude an operator from participating just by censoring them here. At the protocol level though I don't believe they have any power so it's just like Uniswap with their front end which I guess is good enough. The bigger problem though is *why* does a staker trust an operator to delegate to them. At the moment the only answer here is trust. You are either trusting someone you know like Aestus or you are trusting an LRT to underwrite for you, KYC your operators, etc. We need a better answer here.

Operators then assign unique stake to operator sets. The goal here seems to be to prevent restaked ETH from being restaked multiple times which is confusing to me. It's already the case that the underlying stake securing a task can become unbacked, why is it suddenly different if it becomes unbacked within EigenLayer rather than at the LST level? The proper answer here is that capital should be reusable to the extent that the cost of dishonesty still outweighs the profit from dishonesty. The cost of dishonesty is the stake being slashed. The profit from dishonesty scales with the amount of promises you're allowed to make with that stake. I don't see how this security model is even attempting to discover a rational answer to that equation.

Within an operator set, operators are expected to vote on whether the answers of other operators are correct. Their vote is weighted by the stake they assigned to that operator set. The thing that *feels* wrong about this design is we are using restaked ETH as a Sybil resistance source when the nature of being an operator on an AVS consists of doing provable work. Why not just use the proof of work as the Sybil resistance source for this? I have the same feedback for subnets on BitTensor. Why do we need validators for that at all when the miners have the hardware to validate and the miners have to do work so the system can't be Sybiled?

They state that if a malicious operator takes over the operator set the system can slash him. I assume this refers to the EIGEN governance system above the AVS but they aren't explicit about this. All they say is that the only stake at risk within an operator set is the stake assigned to the operator set. I refer to stake voting schemes as subjective consensus. Ultimately, even with objective proof systems it still comes down to who runs what software e.g. Ethereum layer 0, but why involve local operator set at all at that point since the EIGEN governance system participants will apparently be required to host all the proof-validators for all AVSs since operators in every AVS will be allowed to appeal to them? If the goal is to reduce the computational load on the EIGEN governance system participants then I'd say you should first vote using PoW within an operator set then appeal to a contest amongst all the operator sets on the matter and every appeal should require slashable stake to initiate. That looks a lot more like the Colony governance design than what I just read. It's also worth noting that an operator only needs to be slashed in an eventually consistent way so zk-proofs that rely on repeated games are perfectly valid here. There's a long unlock period for validators to unstake from AVSs.

I also don't know what happens in this model if a staker undelegates to an operator. Which operator sets is the unique stake removed from? Is it proportionate, LIFO, etc? And how does stake affect rewards? Can an operator just forfeit their operator set consensus power but do honest work without any unique stake and still be rewarded? There's just a lot of undefined aspects to this system at the moment.

</details>
