---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-10-18
episode: 83
guest: James Kiernen
guest_topic: "[Octant](https://octant.app/), a public goods funding ecosystem"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/pQolznjNuT
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sA4VrGtlg_8
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g6ag98/comment/lshdxxq/)

[u/hehechibby](https://reddit.com/u/hehechibby)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2619.12

[u/hanniabu](https://reddit.com/u/hanniabu)

> 0.03861

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g2ial1/comment/lrsw7yi/)

*Until next price hike,*

*Community stays dreamlike,*

*All around hitchhike.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/15kisFUD</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g38jps/comment/lrwclrt/)

What happened, did the ETF get approved?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 has some thoughts on the unichain then u/hereimalive brings thier own Unichain question</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g127sk/comment/lrdnpgo/)

[u/benido2030](https://reddit.com/u/benido2030):

Some thoughts about the unichain announcement. Now if that means fees go down, that's obviously good. If that means that more value goes to L2s that probably also good, even if it fragments stuff in the beginning. In the end, that's one more step towards onchain price discovery.

What I think is interesting is what this means for Max Resnicks thesis. Uniswap is like 40% of defi (and the other 40% being AAVE, 20% long tail) and if that moves to an L2, the whole "L1 is for defi" argument is kind of obsolete. I don't think this is just a L1 fee decision, this is more control of the product (e.g. block times) and value capture. "Defi" just moved off L1. If I understand things correctly, AAVE v4 is also building towards that, they are just not building their own chain, but bridges between all L2 markets to create one bug liquidity pool.

There's 2 more things we need, abstracting chains away for the user and fix fragmentation of liquidity. And then this whole discussion is hopefully over.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g1suyn/comment/lriw0gi/)

[u/hereimalive](https://reddit.com/u/hereimalive):

If Unichain is an *Ethereum* L2 why is it so bad that can tank the price of it?

You guys are making me afraid.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/somedaysitsdark isn't feeling concern for the burn</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g127sk/comment/lrf4y2o/)

I'm real tired of hearing that ETH is fucked because free blobs are temporarily affecting the burn, as though the burn is the only thing that drives the value of ETH.

Do any other cryptos even have a burn mechanism? Lmao. Guess everyone is fucked.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth10kIsFUD is doing the math after yesterday's conversation</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g127sk/comment/lrf6ons/)

u/cryptOwOcurrency started a great discussion yesterday around Bitcoin security budget with the question: When will it break? Let's try to do some napkin maths:

Bitcoin paid $27m to miners yesterday. 97% of this was issuance. The marketcap secured by this is around $1.2T. On a relative basis that is 27/1.2= $22m of security per day for every Trillion USD Mcap. 

In less than four years that will be $11m of security per day for every Trillion USD Mcap. $6m in 8 years.

At $6m per day that's around $2.2b of economic security per year per Trillion. Industrial miners are generally looking to ROI in less than a year on their hardware investment, so let's assume the cost of the hardware deployed to earn this $2.2b is around $2.2b. This 1 year ROI is also close to what is observed on the network today using the numbers estimated by Justin Drake in this tweet ($17.5 per TH/s): [https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/1763632918994260481](https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/1763632918994260481)

This gives an attacker a price of around $2.2b in hardware spent per Trillion USD in Bitcoin marketcap to achieve 51% of network power in 8 years time. Not taking into consideration the large economies of scale advantage an attacker would get. Coinglass currently shows a 24h BTC Puts options volume of around $1b at a current mcap of $1.2T so getting a short position that could capitalize on the attack seems very doable. 

Even if Bitcoin's price 10x's within the next 8 years ($12T mcap) that would put the total price of attack at $26b. Around 80 individuals on the forbes list currently has this amount on their own. For nation states this is still peanuts. And could most likely be made profitable by any group amassing this amount of capital. At this mcap MicroStrategy's holdings alone would be worth around 6x this amount.

Bitcoin in it's current state will not be secure in 8 years. Markets are forward looking, I believe we'll see serious infighting in 4 years. 

**The iceberg is straight ahead and the captain has left the ship.**

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Itur_ad_Astra Let's assume that ETH continues to crab indefinitely ...</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g2ial1/daily_general_discussion_october_13_2024/lrrgzpq/)

Let's assume that ETH continues to crab indefinitely, while other crypto, bitcoin, stocks, and real estate keep climbing, and inflation means that everything not going up is losing value.

How many months/years/decades would you keep holding? Would you still be holding In December 2026 if the price is $2600? Would you still be holding in May 2029 if the price is $2400? What if it's 2031 and ETH is ranked #4 or #5 on marketcap with Solana or Tron or Sui or Cardano (lol) being higher?

Staking has enough APY to keep me satisfied for now, and I still think there's gonna be a bull eventually, but it's been years since a proper bull run and it's making me sad. Everything else in my (*extremely ETH heavy*) portfolio is outperforming. The price is low enough that I *should* be DCAing, since I've said before that this is what I do sub $2500, but for this month, I'll just consider not selling my monthly staking proceeds as my "DCA".

I do think election week and January are going to be very telling on crypto and Ethereum's medium term price action, and I am going to have to reassess my long term plan after that. But I suspect I'm gonna be doing this holding thing for another couple of years.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/goobergal97 It would pretty bizarre for ETH to be in this range into 2030</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g2ial1/daily_general_discussion_october_13_2024/lrrvlqx/)

It would pretty bizarre for ETH to be in this range into 2030. It will either break up or down by then and considering the competition doesn't stack up in a variety of ways I'm still betting on it breaking up. In TA terms we've really only been crabbing since March of this year. I know when we look at last cycles PA it's like, "why haven't we broken our ATH yet..." but it's just ETHs beta being higher relative to BTC. We're catching the downside volatility right now but later in this cycle I suspect it we'll catch that beta with positive price action and vastly outperform by this time next year.

Last cycle ETH put in roughly 6,000% gains from cycle bottom to top. 1/10th of that price performance gets ETH to ~6k, 1/5th gets it to ~12k. I think even with diminishing returns things look bright for us. 1/5th isn't even the limit, 1/3rd is even possible imo which would take ETH to \~20k. 

Expecting 5 figure ETH is realistic this cycle.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/SplinterCole is so fatigued of crypto stuff; but drops a list of DeFi things they are using often</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g2ial1/daily_general_discussion_october_13_2024/lrovjs7/)

Im so fatigued of crypto stuff, that the last "farming" i did was to diversify my eth into different lrst.   
Now that im only waiting for swell and diva/nectar im feeling glad its over so to speak.  
I missed the OP #5 airdrop and will miss scroll and linea etc, just because i couldnt get myself to keep getting farmed.

After years in crypto and defi, there is currently built 2 things im using often as a  non whale LP´er and ponzi yield farmer.

1.Sportsbetting has become competitive with the best bookies, and betting without middlemen from your wallet is amazing, shoutout to all teams working on this, in my experience SXbet ,Thales/Overtimemarkets.xyz, Azuro/bookmaker.xyz has everything i need as a casual bettor.

2.Gnosispay Visa card is next level awesome imo. Getting 4% cashback on my spending, and be able to just put € into my gnosissafe adress and spend is amazing.

(3,4) honorable  \*biased \*mentions should be my heavy bags of SNX and WINR, SNX because they have started a work on renewing to hopefully be relevant in defi again after getting left behind in innovation and token price at all time low.  
WINR because they seemingly try to take gambling completely onchain+ give users option to single side LP in the pools that are +EV for the house

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Warm welcome to u/alexiskef's wife u/AL_FruFru who has a question from her online crypto course about BTC scripts</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g405r7/daily_general_discussion_october_15_2024/ls0lsd1/)

My wife, who is doing an online course on crypto (yes!), just asked my help in understanding the "Value-blindness" part of the following part of her studying material:

*The 2014 Ethereum whitepaper by Vitalik Buterin, the founder, identified key limitations in Bitcoin's scripting capabilities:*  

* *Lack of Turing-completeness: Bitcoin's scripting language is not Turing-complete, it can’t perform all possible computational operations.*  
* __*Value-blindness: Bitcoin scripts cannot natively assess the value of transactions.*__  
* *Lack of state: Bitcoin lacks a mechanism to track and store the state of complex applications.*  
* *Blockchain-blindness: Bitcoin scripts have limited ability to interact with or understand blockchain data beyond simple transaction details.*  

*Ethereum was designed to overcome these limitations and to address the need for creating new blockchains for different functionalities.*

I told her I know some super-friendly people who'll def help!

u/AL_FruFru

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/aaj094 Italy is increasing capital gains tax on crypto (26% to 42%)</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g4roxi/daily_general_discussion_october_16_2024/ls7ze40/)

Italy is increasing capital gains tax on crypto in particular from 26% to 42%.

<https://www.theblock.co/post/321407/italy-capital-gains-tax-bitcoin>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ProfessionalNoiseX Radiant capital exploited.revoke all radiant contract addresses as a safety measure, ASAP</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g4roxi/daily_general_discussion_october_16_2024/ls9ak70/)

[https://x.com/0xShual/status/1846607303136423938](https://x.com/0xShual/status/1846607303136423938)

>rip a lot of money  
  
revoke all radiant contract addresses as a safety measure, ASAP  
  
0xF4B1486DD74D07706052A33d31d7c0AAFD0659E1 arb  
0xd50Cf00b6e600Dd036Ba8eF475677d816d6c4281 bsc  
0x30798cFe2CCa822321ceed7e6085e633aAbC492F base

Radiant capital exploited a couple hours ago. Revoke your approvals on Arbitrum/Base/BSC if you are still in time.

</details>
