---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-02-16
episode: 56
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/CvBJ1bPeQt
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HD2frZKqxlE
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/168421
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1as1h64/comment/kqnfw7b/)

[u/hehechibby](https://reddit.com/u/hehechibby)

> Ethereum

[u/Colombian_Meatsmoker](https://reddit.com/u/Colombian_Meatsmoker)

> $2847

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0544

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 89,350 hodlers subscribed (-17)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1alov71/comment/kpjc4xp/)

*The next fork in March,*

*Continously overarch,*

*Leave the rest to parch.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/doomfuzzslayer</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aqfvsu/daily_general_discussion_february_14_2024/kqhhwyl/)

Guys I’m really worried. Cardano. You’ve heard of it right? Pretty sure the founder and lead dev - can’t remember his name but he has a dope beard - also the founder of playboy (or maybe it’s one of those boomer porn mags - hustler?) Anyway dude is LEGIT and recently announced they’re moving to ON CHAIN GOVERNANCE! You can’t get more decentralized than that. Pure democracy. Tokens = votes just like in the REAL WORLD. Eth and dare I say Btc need to get their shit together. Btc is a horse and buggy (with shitty suspension). Eth is a stock car (leaking oil). Solana is a space ship (leaky o ring - we know how that ends). Algorand is…sorry lost my train of thought. Cardano tho. They’ve FIGURED IT OUT!

You’re on alert eth devs. The time of autocratic rule will soon be over. On chain governance - pure clean democracy as it should be - is our future.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 was looking for a new EthFinance $STRK delegate and u/panthoreon stepped up!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1alov71/daily_general_discussion_february_8_2024/kpglgvv/)

[u/benido2030](https://reddit.com/u/benido2030):

[Argent yesterday announced on twitter](https://twitter.com/argenthq/status/1755256369471688793?s=46&t=YfmV111XTneWp8pMn5zaLA) (you'll not see me using that new "brand") that

>The Starknet airdrop is coming soon 🪂

I think Argent and Starknet are in a rather strong partnership. Argent is now a Starknet only wallet (Ethereum etc technically still works, but I think all other chains are "legacy" by now). If they post stuff like that, it's really close. 

We have two members from the community already that would like to be "our" delegate:

- [u/atleft](https://reddit.com/u/atleft)
- [u/\_weboftrust](https://reddit.com/u/\_weboftrust)

They both have been delegates for some time, since Starknet governance is already up and running. This is great, they know how it all works, they are known (both here and within the starknet ecosystem), so these are great people to delegate to. 

But I would still like to find a 3rd, "fresh" delegate, someone who has not been a delegate but is familiar with Starknet, wants to go into governance and has the time and energy to listen to this community. 

This time I would like to change the process a little. If there are people that want to be a delegate there, feel free to leave a comment. But since last time there was only tricky (and they sadly had to drop out again because of missing free time for such an adventure) I think we could also propose people we feel would make a great delegate. Those members of course have to decide if they want to do it (and potentially starknet is not the best protocol if they are not users/ familiar) but at least we can get a discussion started :)

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1amhanj/daily_general_discussion_february_9_2024/kpmn520/)

[u/panthoreon](https://reddit.com/u/panthoreon):

So in response to this [post](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/gk0zwZfFFG) from yesterday and the thread on farcaster:
I would like to get more involved with the ethereum community, so I would be honored if elected as a delegate for starknet.

- Who am I? -

I am a non-dev person with a mechanical engineering background, working in the supply chain field with a wide variety of functional experiences like network planning, procurement, demand planning, and logistics. My background equipped me with strong logic-based thinking, process mapping, and root cause analysis / problem solving skills.

As a person, I come from a very humble background that I believe has granted me a more holistic worldview; born and raised in Turkey, where corruption and poor fiscal management are like bread & butter (hence we see a wider adoption of crypto there):

I am very familiar with oppression, I know how it feels to be completely insecure in the midst of a military coup. I know what being tear gassed just for walking on the wrong street feels like. I know first-hand that to a third worlder, blockchain technologies mean a whole lot more in financial sovereignty.

Yet, I have also gained perspective of the Western world as i have been living in US for the past 10+ years, developing my expertise in Supply chain. 

A bit on the lighter side; I am a fitness enthusiast and have been a division 1 athlete in the past, I have self-taught art to a pretty serious level (primarily drawing) from imitating Spiderman comic books as a kid, and a huge animal-lover that spends a lot of his time with his two dogs. 

- Why am I interested? -

I have known about ethereum since the single digit price times but was at the time not interested in "crypto", seeing only gambling as its usecase back then.

I got more interested as the ecosystem developed and we started seeing real applications of DeFi, when I joined this community and have been a relatively silent reader that contributes every once in a while ever since. I am part of EVMavericks and active in a few other groups on Discord where you can find me under another handle: Aybala.

My real "Aha" moment happened when - thanks to this awesome community - I attended an EY blockchain conference in NYC, and learned about Baseline and the potential applications of zero-knowledge within my industry, supply chain. Ever since, I have been more invested, both financially and timewise, in the overall blockchain ecosystem.

As a non-dev and a non-social media person,  there are fewer possibilities to contribute to the ecosystem but being a delegate is something I can do.

I can commit to you all that I would invest the necessary time to ensure the best interests of this group, that I can bring to the table a perspective that is able to empathize and consider a wider ranges of human experience and be meticulous and process-driven in approaching any proposals / initiatives.

I appreciate everyone's time reading this and the consideration. Let me know if there is anything I can answer for you.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HombreDeCamote shares a long journey with a happy ending</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1amhanj/daily_general_discussion_february_9_2024/kpms478/)

A year ago I lost access to a significant to me amount of ETH. Since then I had been working with developers from Offchain Labs and The Arbitrum Foundation to retrieve the funds. Two weeks ago, following an incredible amount of effort from some big-brained devs, developers from The Arbitrum Foundation deployed retrieval contracts. Unfortunately the contracts were front run which resulted in the ETH being sacrificed and converted to a large block proposer fee. This would be similar to if I dropped a dollar on your front yard and asked you to pass it to me but when you reached out to do so, someone ran between us and grabbed the dollar.

I followed the transactions using a block explorer and noted that white hat hacker c0ffeebabe.eth had also attempted to rescue my funds but was also unable. I learned that c0ffeebabe.eth has used their skills to protect everyday users, in once instance they rescued $5.7M/2879 ETH from hackers and returned every cent/gwei, so I reached out for help. They, and users from this sub, were able to help me confirm that the proposal fee address belonging to Staked, which was recently acquired by Kraken Digital Asset Exchange. 

I was able to get in touch with several decision makers at both organizations. I explained the situation and provided documentation to prove the ETH had belonged to me till I lost access. Within a few short days they told me they had decided to return my ETH to me. As far as I know this is the first time a validator has returned a block proposal fee in an instance of theft or exploit , but please correct me if I am wrong. Regardless, I hope that the actions of Staked, Kraken, the Arbitrum Foundation, and OffChain Labs helps to set industry precedent moving forward.

I am incredibly grateful and incredibly lucky for the way this turned out. Without the support, sympathy, and skill of many strangers this outcome would not have been possible. Thank you to all those involved and to members of this community who helped me see this through.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Itur_ad_Astra reminds us to keep pushing for execution client change as we are currently in the danger zone</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1an9h36/daily_general_discussion_february_10_2024/kprog1y/)

So, I've had an idea about client diversity (and how to push more people to switch clients).

See, we are right now in a "tragedy of the commons" situation, where people CBA to switch from Geth because its usage is falling anyways, so someone else will do it, right?

Plus, psychologically, a 72% Geth dominance looks *way* better than a 85% Geth dominance. And on top of that, the risk *seems* lower to just stay on Geth.

But we all know that there's no difference whether the supermajority client is at 66% or at 90%. A bad block will finalize immeiately, and stakers will lose their stake. Most people on Ethfinance are aware of that.

The risk is the same... right? Well, no.

So, here's my idea. I think that, if you believe in the dynamics of "Layer 0", **a 66% supermajority is much, *much* worse than a 90% supermajority for stakers running the supermajority client.**

At 90% supermajority, I can easily see the community deciding on either a rollback (yeah, yeah, I know, never again, code is law etc., but let's be realistic) or accepting the Geth block as the correct one and going forward from there, either with some kind of compensation for Nethermind/Besu clients, or even no compensation.

At 90% supermajority, there would be little discussion and it's clear to me what would happen. And it's clearer the higher the Geth dominance is.

However, I think that at 66% things would be way more messier and contentious. This is now the "danger zone" where enough of the community did the right thing and have a strong enough voice, that the outcome of a supermajority client bug will be respected. *This* is where Geth users find themselves losing their stake.

And they might have a much more quiet voice than they expect. Centralized staking services, which are the ones that are mostly refusing to do the right thing (I'm looking at you, Coinbase and Binance) will just lose someone else's money, not their own. They got their cut on your profits, they lost your stake, c'est la vie. There might be some lawsuits, they are used to that.

**Change your clients. We are far from dealing with this and the situation is still critical.**

\* Sidenote: I'm very much a layman (albeit a staking one), so I'd like some input if my thinking is wrong.

---

Something to note with the values on [clientdiversity.org](https://clientdiversity.org/) is the lower the geth dominance does, the less accurate it is

/- hanniabu

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz reminds us to be cautious with unnecessary protocol risk</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1an9h36/daily_general_discussion_february_10_2024/kps9zqy/)

As of today, [Eigenlayer reports](https://app.eigenlayer.xyz/) 2,470,100 Ether staked. With a total of 30,338,443 Ether staked (according to [Hildobby](https://dune.com/hildobby/eth2-staking)), this represents about 8% of the total staked Eth under withdraw contract addresses developed by Eigenlayer. This is far from the 22% threshold I advocate, but it's wise to look ahead.

On one hand, I don't see this as a problem at all. Eigenlayer is cool, and restaking is interesting. I've made a small deposit into Eigenlayer and I look forward to seeing what it does.

On the other hand, amassing 8% of the validator withdrawal addresses prior to launch might send some red flags, especially considering that Eigenlayer has indicated that they have [no intention of self limiting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nkDAODUTmaQ) (It's somewhere in that chat, I don't have a time stamp, feel free to offer it). 

Why is this concerning? It represents unnecessary protocol risk. Our ultimate mission as stakers is to secure the beacon chain. It's great if we can eek out extra revenue doing other tasks, but the social contract is to secure the beacon chain. We ought to recognize the real smart contract and governance risks here and recognize that any time we shift the balance and aggregate risk in one large pool we're posing a threat to the underlying protocol.

As usual, I'm not directing this to you, dear friend, I'm talking about the larger ecosystem risk. I imagine you're participating in Eigenlayer with less than 300,000 staked Ether and you likely represent less than 1% of the Ether staked on the beacon chain. I'm telling you that large entities who have no commitment to the success of Ethereum may put our network at risk and you ought to be aware of that AND ready to protect the protocol as well as your investment. You don't have to stand idly by as your work is eroded by anyone. 

I'm not asking you to avoid Eigenlayer or any of the cool ancillary platforms that have sprung up around it, I'm asking you to zoom out and recognize the dangers of aggregating risk. This isn't about Eigenlayer - it's about ANY risk aggregator who is ever willing to add existential risk to our chain. And I'll repeat myself: I LIKE the Eigenlayer concept.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll wants to put pressure on certain teams to implement better anti-scam systems</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ao10pn/daily_general_discussion_february_11_2024/kpwckfr/)

So, regarding u/HiPattern's [post yesterday](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1an9h36/daily_general_discussion_february_10_2024/kpthiuy/) about wallet dusting attacks which impersonate the most recent wallet you sent funds to in an effort to make it look like the top wallet in your Etherscan history is yours but it's actually just a similar wallet which is not yours in an effort to get you to accidentally send funds to their wallet next time you need to send to your previous sender. (Sorry, it's hard to explain, check out the post if you didn't get that.)

So currently, people are losing lots of money to these sneaky scams. I could very well see a dark future where I myself let my guard down when selling some ETH to get on the property ladder one day and when I go to transfer the funds to an exchange, I click the wrong account since it's right there at the top of my wallet's history and boom. My hopes and dreams of stability in where I live are gone for years to come.

***Just imagine thinking you can finally buy a house for your family and then at the last minute one slip up and that whole dream was taken from you. This has happened to people before and it will happen again.***

But this is completely avoidable! This is an extremely easy issue to solve. While it would be nice to get everyone to have better OpSec, it's not going to happen. However, one really minor tweak to Etherscan and it could be solved. 

1. They could add a simple bit of code to either display the Jazzicon/block profile pic next to every wallet address. This way, even though it is small, one could see that the address is different since the colour/design is different.

2. They could add some code to flag wallets which have similar starting and ending letters. It could be a simple orange warning sign or something which has more info if you have over it or a big banner if you actually click on said wallet.

Best of all, Etherscan is good at this sort of stuff usually. They added a revoke token permissions app to prevent those affected by exploits and that was a much more complicated addition. On the simpler side, they tag known scam wallets as such.

So I'd like this to be a call to action for this community. We have done this before. Previously when we have wanted to get an idea broadcast out to the wider Ethereum community or a certain protocol, we have been able to do it if we all do our part. **So please, if anyone knows someone who works for Etherscan or if you have followers/influence on other platforms like Twitter. Please, tell Etherscan to automatically flag dust attack wallets.** If we are successful, we could successfully save many people from losing their life savings to this avoidable tragedy.

This is quite possibly one of the easiest changes which could be made to prevent a lot of money from falling into the wrong hands.

Edit: I guess this also should be done in wallets too like MetaMask. So why stop at Etherscan? Let's make a fuss to every wallet provider which doesn't have some kind of system to prevent this. It should be as simple as if you shorten wallet addresses, have a kind of warning bubble if there are similar addresses you have previously sent funds to.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheHansGruber is grateful for retroactive public goods funding</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1apmglo/daily_general_discussion_february_13_2024/kq86iof/)

As some of you may know, since the launch of the holesky testnet last September I have been maintaining and testing several thousand genesis validators alongside a dozen or so other meganerds from the rocketpool community. This is in spite of the fact that I almost **certainly** am responsible for bringing the average IQ of this group down a couple of points.

Over the last few months I have picked up a number of skills required for this sort of thing and I get a great deal of satisfaction knowing I am contributing in a small way to the development and progression of ethereum. I'll have these guys running for as long as the testnet needs 'em.

Anyway...I am proud to be able to say that, as of yesterday, I have received my **first ever** retroactive public goods funding from the folks over at ethstaker for operating these validators. Some months ago u/nixorokish posted in here about there being the possibility of a small grant/funding, and I inquired. I have a little extra pep in my step today. It isn't a huge pile of cash or anything, it's only meant to cover most of the cost of operating the machines. But it *feels* like a huge pile of cash to me, because for the first time I have tangible proof that I am, in fact, doing *something useful* in the space...other than shitposting on CT and farcaster, which I will contrinue to do regardless.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/OkDragonfruit1929 summarises Ethereum</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1apmglo/daily_general_discussion_february_13_2024/kq8ornt/)

Ethereum is not just a cryptocurrency; it's a platform for decentralized applications, smart contracts, and various decentralized finance projects. This ecosystem supports a wide range of applications, from finance and gaming to art and identity verification and tokenization of real-world assets and tokenization of commodities, offering a utility that goes infinitely beyond what Bitcoin was designed for. Bitcoin primarily serves as digital gold or a store of value, whereas Ethereum aims to be an open, transparent, equitable settlement layer for the entire planet.

The Ethereum network has spawned numerous Layer 2 solutions (L2s) like Optimism, Arbitrum, and zkSync, which aim to scale the network by handling transactions off the main Ethereum chain, thereby increasing throughput and reducing fees. This is in contrast to Bitcoin, which has largely remained focused on Layer 1 (L1) with some off-chain solutions like the Lightning Network, which is dying in front of our eyes. The growth and adoption of L2s arguably add to Ethereum's utility and value. With zero-knowledge proofs coming sooner than anyone expects, liquidity fragmentation between the L2s and L1 will soon be a thing of the past.

Ethereum's transition to Proof of Stake (PoS) with the Merge significantly altered its issuance model and energy consumption. In PoS, validators stake ETH to secure the network, which is more energy-efficient than Bitcoin's Proof of Work (PoW) model. The issuance model under PoS is designed to be fairer and more sustainable, with rewards not exponentially weighted toward the ultra-wealthy with exponentially more computational power, but on rather on a linear model that scales fairly with the amount of ETH staked. This levels the playing field for earning transaction fees and block rewards, contrasting with Bitcoin's model where mining power concentration can lead to extreme disparities in earning potential where the APR of the ultra-wealthy is magnitudes higher than the APR allotted to the lower 99%.

EIP-1559 introduced a mechanism for burning a portion of transaction fees, reducing the overall supply of ETH over time. This deflationary pressure is unique compared to Bitcoin's currently inflating supply until it finally caps at 21 million. The fee market mechanism of Ethereum also aims to make transaction fees more predictable.

Ethereum's ecosystem supports multiple client implementations, fostering a diverse and resilient network. This diversity can reduce the risk of network-wide failures due to bugs in a single client implementation, a contrast to the single point of failure landscape of Bitcoin's one and only client.
  
Despite these advantages, the market valuation of ETH compared to BTC has been far too heavily influenced by narrative, "store-of-value" meme-ability, speculation, investor sentiment, and market dynamics. While Ethereum's technological and ecosystem advancements provide ETH a stronger value proposition, the market has failed to notice.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu warns us of a clever new scam going around</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aqfvsu/daily_general_discussion_february_14_2024/kqcv3jr/)

PSA: New toxic address scam

They register an ENS with your address, such as 0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045.eth (vitalik's address) so when you search for an address in an app it'll show in the results, potentially even as the first result as shown here:

[https://x.com/haydenzadams/status/1757632516444311937](https://x.com/haydenzadams/status/1757632516444311937)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/skythe4 breaks the news of the StarkWare airdrop, u/Luukiemans breaks down the distribution, and u/superphiz tells us how to claim and more</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aqfvsu/daily_general_discussion_february_14_2024/kqcxsvs/)

[u/skythe4](https://reddit.com/u/skythe4):

*itshappening.gif*


> gm
> STRK ✨✨✨
> Read more: <https://medium.com/@StarknetFoundation/introducing-the-starknet-provisions-program-05d03ce13970>

<https://twitter.com/StarknetFndn/status/1757676598730342761>

---

> Let us intro:
> The Starknet Provisions Program
> Claiming starts Feb 20, 2024, 12pm UTC
> Check your eligibility 👇
> provisions.starknet.io

<https://twitter.com/StarknetFndn/status/1757676600596811928>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aqfvsu/daily_general_discussion_february_14_2024/kqcy7ep/)

[u/Luukiemans](https://reddit.com/u/Luukiemans):

Happy Valentine's Day ~~stakers~~ ETH Community:

*You staked ETH up until the Merge - September 15th, 2022. Note that if you staked via a staking pool or centralized exchange you can't claim ETH directly through the portal. Your provider should claim the allocated STRK and distribute it to you.*  

Allocation:  

- 51.33% to Starknet Users  
- 21.99% to ETH Stakers  
- 9.62% to StarkEx Users  
- 9.05% to Starknet ECMP Members  
- 3.36% to Ethereum Developer  
- 2.14% to Starknet Developers  
- 2.12% to Open-source Developers  
- 0.22% to Ethereum Protocol Guild Members  
- 0.19% to EIP Authors

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aqfvsu/daily_general_discussion_february_14_2024/kqdqtey/)

[u/superphiz](https://reddit.com/u/superphiz):

In case no one has mentioned this, to check your STRK eligibility on an Ethereum address, you have to go to the [claim page](https://provisions.starknet.io) and click the third tab on the left before you enter the address. This is kind of a confusing ux.

Here's what the claim page looks like after you click the third tab: <https://ibb.co/KVX2C4S>

And the claim may be based on your deposit address or your withdrawal address, so check both if you don't see it.

I think all pre-merge beacon chain depositors are eligible.

Don't forget to appreciate Starknet for being the first airdrop to show significant support to the solo/home staking community!

Also, it looks like Rocket Pool stakers aren't able to claim right now, but I'm aware of internal discussions that are very like to conclude with Rocket Pool node operators claiming STRK.

</details>
