---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-10-04
episode: 81
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/MSseH9igpR
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wtMi2PeLzzI
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fvrhxr/comment/lq98se3/)

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> ✨E✨t✨h✨e✨r✨e✨u✨m✨

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2380.07

[u/ridgerunners](https://reddit.com/u/ridgerunners)

> 0.03893

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fsnv17/comment/lppbypb/)

*Walking in the dark,*

*Absence of knowledge was stark,*

*Computing proof benchmark.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Reefthusiast</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fu8i74/comment/lpz4x4i/)

A little market lingo for noobs, when a pump falls back a little bit after sustained upward movement, it’s called a “correction”

When it falls back completely then dumps even further from where it started, it’s called “ethereum”

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/MinimalGravitas looks at the Optimism badgeholders</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fpojgj/daily_general_discussion_september_26_2024/lozmooc/)

Just wanted to share this cool dashboard showing the onchain activities of Optimism citizens/badge holders (of which there are quite a few in here):

<https://dune.com/lamora/optimism-citizens>

It shows a comparison with a control group of normal Optimism users, with metrics such as participation in other DAOs, usage of OP stack chains and web3 social media.

The biggest difference seems to be in adoption of Farcaster, with 59% of badgeholders using it compared to about 12% of regular users. It also really shows how much more popular Farcaster is than Lens, which is only used by about 11.4% of badgeholders (and less than 8% of regular users).

I'd be interested to see crossover metrics with those used for the EVMaverick Resume (<https://dune.com/mtitus6/EVMavericks-Resume>) such as the number of stakers, wallet age etc, and vis versa, showing EVM participation in other DAOs etc.

In fact, I wonder how many OP Citizens also hold an EVMav? It feels pretty stupid that I've been in crypto so long and never bothered to learn to use Dune, maybe that will be my project for the weekend...

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade delivers a big hopium hit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fqg5x4/daily_general_discussion_september_27_2024/lp7aprd/)

Ethereum mainnet gas at 23 Gwei right now.

Not in a bullrun, not in a mania phase. During a truly boring period.

While L2s scale us 23x. While active addresses are at an ATH of 10 million a week.

The market clearly doesn't see it yet but here's what will happen within a few months:

After years of underperformance, ether sees a sudden correction. Narratives immediately follow price action. Enthusiasm returns. Euphoria follows. Influencers on all sides start to pretend they all saw it coming. It was obvious. Activity skyrockets. L1 burn brings deflation back. L2 activity keeps growing, faster and faster. Millions of new users join the L2s. Blob usage reach max value. More users. Price discovery begins. Blobs start contributing to the burn. New L2s appear faster than you can follow. More institutional L2s. Blackrock L2. Stock market on L2. More users. Soon, L2 activity is higher than we can accommodate.  

Ether price explodes.

Getting into eth action is 100x easier than last bullrun. People buy using paypal. People buy using debit card on Metamask. Coinbase sends their flux of new users to Base. More users. Ethereum starts to become a staple of reliability brands use in commercials. Institutions start to notice Ethereum. Mentioning Ethereum in business plans becomes as popular as AI currently is. Institutions want exposure, this time they can. More users. The ETF gains crazy popularity. Money inflows look like they'll keep coming forever. Negative regulatory efforts don't matter anymore, you can't stop the infinity machine.

Ethereum made it. We made it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu covers the latest drama and the underlying debate and follows up with a call to action for home stakers</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fqg5x4/daily_general_discussion_september_27_2024/lp8ol0v/)

Max Resnick is back with some more bad takes.

For those that missed it, in yesterday's [Execution Layer meeting (discussion goes for about 30min)](https://www.youtube.com/live/PWhn8KdgCl8?si=nCINzxlcgUlY9imD&t=2338) there was a discussion on whether to increase blobs from 4 to 5 and increase the blob target from 3 to 4 in Pectra A. The reason for this is to maintain adoption of blobs by L2s to help tide us over until we have PeerDAS.

*Before continuing it's important to note that the blobs we have now were always meant to be a stopgap until PeerDAS and network upgrades, which makes it more efficient to scale. We were never meant to scale blobs under current conditions.*

There were mentions that some are already struggling with bandwidth, but was brushed off as anecdotal. Thankfully Potuz spoke up for home stakers and said we should treat data from both sides the same since those that are having no issues is anecdotal too. So there was agreement to get more data on this first before deciding whether to include these changes or not. Ryan Berckmans also made [a post on the research forum](https://ethresear.ch/t/wheres-the-home-staking-bandwidth-research/20507/2) for this data.

Today Ben Edgington, who is a major contributor to getting Ethereum to where it is today, wrote in a [Twitter thread](https://twitter.com/benjaminion_xyz/status/1839585322683822318) that he was seeing he was having signs of issues too.

In comes Max Resnick [quote tweeting Ben's post](https://twitter.com/MaxResnick1/status/1839596419608424837) and the following conversation insued:

Max: Bandwidth capacity grows at 50% a year. Asking the entire global network to slow down while we are actively battling for market share with an extremely competent opponent because you live in a swamp with 12mb/s bandwidth is extremely selfish.

Ben: Where did I ask for the entire global network to slow down?

Max: You are literally saying your node can not keep up, so you want to propose fewer blobs in your blocks. Why don't you shut your node down and unstake? You are slowing down the network by doing this.

Ben: I dislike your dystopian future.

Max: We can no longer afford to eat the cost of these luxury beliefs. Solo staking in a place where you do not have appropriate bandwidth imposes an externality on the network. If Ethereum doesn't win, the world looks much more dystopian than a world where Ethereum sacrifices a few rural solo stakers in exchange for vastly increased performance.

*end*

[Nixo put it perfectly](https://twitter.com/nixorokish/status/1839707152430301514) with how it feels reading that:

>That feeling when arrogant young blood opining on the future of Ethereum comes in hot and tells the one of the most OG cypherpunks I know, who literally wrote the book on Ethereum, to shut down his node and unstake \[image of sad pepe looking out a rainy window\]

And Max replies to nixo's tweet with a gif saying to shut it down. What a disgrace.

To better understand how home stakers are doing bandwidth wise, please take this EthStaker survey (it's POAP gated):

[https://x.com/ethStaker/status/1839763102952501613](https://x.com/ethStaker/status/1839763102952501613)

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fqg5x4/daily_general_discussion_september_27_2024/lp8oqys/)

Calling all home stakers! We're looking to investigate if stakers would be concerned about increasing network bandwidth


Please help by filling out a quick survey: <https://poap-feedback.deform.cc/Solo-Staker-Bandwidth-Survey/>

You need [one of the staking community POAPs](https://collections.poap.xyz/ethereum-stakers/4972) to fill out the survey. Let me know if there are any we should add so you can fill this out.

Share on the everything app: <https://x.com/ethStaker/status/1839763102952501613>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth provides us with an L2 ecosystem update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fr6w8s/daily_general_discussion_september_28_2024/lpc0pfi/)

🥧 This Week - In the Ethereum Pie - Layer 2 update:   
(I have a version with links but they are all to X posts.... Would that be allowed and more importantly would that be wanted?)   
  
- Op Mainnet Transactions \~2x in the past 90 days  
- Base begins its weekly Throughput hikes  
- Starknet eyeing up to be the next L2 with +$100M Stablecoins  
- L2s continue to increase the adoption rate of Stablecoins in the Ethereum Ecosystem  
- 2 successful Gitcoin rounds – Thanks to all who donated  
- Base is supporting builders around the world to fix local problems – 100ETH in Prizes  
- Reminder to all builders to tag their contract addresses  
- Metis having a new wave of active addresses  
- Taiko reclaims 3rd place in Transaction Count  
- Rent Paid to L1 up 400% - past 30 days  
- Layer 2 Utility rising thanks to Account Abstraction  
- Muti chain activity is up 12% this week  
- Base however has seen a fall in Cross-Chain Activity  
- Reminder we have had low fees for less than a year – Builders are building  
- Team member Ahoura writes on “Is Ethereum experiencing an existential crisis?”

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HSuke shares their story of falling for a scam</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fr6w8s/daily_general_discussion_september_28_2024/lpchlgo/)

After a decade in the crypto space, I finally became a victim of a scam. Fortunately, it was only for about $20 worth of useless Hamster Kombat tokens, and I was already fullly prepared for it to be a scam.

This was entirely expected. At least I got front-row tickets to see this shitshow, and it's been the most fun I've had from the utterly-boring Hamster Kombat game.

Around this August, the HamsterKomat team promoted a non-KYC, no-gas method for the token airdrop that used the Ebi.xyz DEX. All the other airdrop methods uses CEXs that weren't available in the US, so that was my only choice. I figured the airdrop would be tiny, and I couldn't care less about it, so I picked it because it the easiest method.

I already knew Ebi.xyz was an unknown DEX that was created around the time that Hamster Kombat launched, possibly by the same Hamster Kombat team. Pretty much nothing is known about the real members of either team.

* 3 days before the airdrop, Ebi team said they had airdropped tokens to their users. We told them they were wrong.
* Around this time, the HamsterKombat sub shut down and disabled all new posts. The mods left and the remaining mod has since disappeared.
* On the day of the airdrop (Sept 26), Ebi congratulated everyone for receiving their airdrop
* Not a single person who used Ebi actually received their airdrop
* After a few hours, they said they were encountering technical difficulties, and their website became unavailable
* A few hours later, the website came back up, and Ebi said they were working through technical difficulties due to high volume
* By now, their Twitter account and Discord channel was full of thousands of people calling them scammers
* On Sept 27, they made an announcement that the Airdrop claims were live. We immediately checked, saw nothing, and told them they were full of shit.
* On Sept 28, the Ebi.xyz website went down for maintenance again and came back up 2 hours later. And none of us have received our tokens.
* The token price has been dropping about 15-30% every day, and we have no idea what they're doing with our tokens.

And that wraps up what I know so far.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard shares some thoughts on investing trends, the cost of living and AI</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fsnv17/daily_general_discussion_september_30_2024/lppkngp/)

Some pontification... I feel like I've been able to predict all the major tech trends from the last 25 years, whether it was operating systems, search engines, cloud computing, weed stocks, EVs, crypto, or AI. Right now, for the first time in a long time, I just don't know.

AI, at least at the startup stage, is clearly in a bubble. I strongly believe in the transformative power of AI but it's already had its 10x recently and random VC investments I'm reviewing are raising $100M just for mentioning AI. Do you honestly expect NVDA to do *another* 10x from here? You can buy MSFT and just sit on it or something broad spectrum like VTI and probably make your 8% a year but that's not a play for risk-seeking capital like all these other bets have been. Gold's been having a great run with nation states trying to de-dollarize and basically rotating US bond reserves into precious metal reserves but even if I'm up like 40% there it's just *boring* and I don't see a future in it outside of the current run. Maybe I need to look into emerging markets? Maybe there just is no 1000% tech investment to be found right now and I just need to stay informed, preserve capital, and wait? In the meantime I'm just parked barbell style in liquidity farming and working the fiat mines but it increasingly feels like if I'm not making 10% a year on my whole portfolio I'll be falling behind to inflation let alone able to live off my assets.

I feel like I have enough most people would consider me wealthy but increasingly capital is the only thing that will make money in the world while the supply and demand of human labor will be increasingly out of balance as AI accelerates. Child care costs over $2k a month while the employees watch 8 kids each and make like $10-15/hr. Universities put students hundreds of thousands into student debt yet lecturers are working multiple jobs to get by. The medical industry and end of life care is going to systemically drain all the boomers wealth before it passes down but the caretakers of those facilities are overworked and couldn't afford a room at the facilities they work at. All of our services seem to cost astronomical amounts compared to pre-covid but the people doing the work aren't making that. So who is? Capital.

You can see what's happening to the 98% of people already left behind. Now add in AI displacing tens of millions of jobs over the next decade. As is the nature of automation, it will replace labor with profits to AI companies but a 10/1 ratio. I once led a team of AI engineers that was automating the jobs of 200 workers at $15 an hour per engineer per year. The software was considered a depreciating asset with a three year shelf life so we were considered to be making $18M in savings per engineer per year. That was 6 years ago; the technology is much more powerful now.

I feel like there's this metaphorical wave I need to catch and I'm just behind the crest of it working hard to get on top of it so I can let the water do the work instead of me padding the whole way. The fear of being left behind keeps me motivated but it's not a happy mindset. The way out of it is to combine let the fiat mines pay the bills while I find the next 5x tech innovation to ride up but again I feel stumped there for the first time in a long time.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eviljordan has the latest on the Google Ethereum price shenanigans</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fsnv17/daily_general_discussion_september_30_2024/lpqzn5d/)

Regarding `eth-usd` Google data: You may have noticed Google removed the nice chart in search results. This data _used_ to be powered by CoinMarketCap.

Earlier in the month, the data just stopped and was stuck.

Myself and other members of this community called attention to Google (and I tried getting in touch with CoinMarketCap, but, no surprise, no one responded). Last week, a Google search for "eth-usd" started working again, but without a chart. It's actually returning data from Yahoo! Finance.

I also noticed that my Google Sheets function (`=GOOGLEFINANCE("ETHUSD")`) was _still_ stuck on the wrong price, so I clicked the "Disclaimer" in the footer of Google Sheets around stock/currency prices, which led me to this familiar page: <https://www.google.com/googlefinance/disclaimer/>

HOWEVER, the provider of cryptocurrency data has changed from CoinMarketCap to Morningstar (I assume [this](https://www.morningstar.com/) Morningstar).

I can't find the price of regular old ETH (or BTC or anything else crypto-related that's not a fund) on their public site, but maybe it's behind a login/paywall.

Anyway, the point is, Google must be aware shit's not working, but they didn't really fix anything yet. I encourage you to click those little "Help" buttons/links in Sheets or in Search or in your Admin Console and complain! Squeaky wheel and all that!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dreth fills us in on the happenings in Chinese financial markets</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ftg8jb/daily_general_discussion_october_1_2024/lpuikxy/)

Something's brewing in Chinese markets. I'm sure you guys remember the Chinese housing market was going through a bubble pop and property prices had come down significantly from their peak over there. With lots of property in horrendous conditions, lots of property being liquidated at low prices but nobody purchasing them, etc.

Recently the People's Bank of China announced several measures that in isolation might seem appropriate to stimulate the economy, but when combined all together generate a crazy amount of stimulus. This is with the intend of pushing economic growth up, increasing stock market prices and increasing property prices.

The measures are:

- Interest rates paid to savings in banks were pushed down from 1.7% to 1.5% - The lowest interest rate in its history. This is intended to push banks to seek to lend more and the movement of savings into the market for investment.

- The % of deposits that must be covered by liquid reserves in banks (only for the largest banks). It used to be 10% but it's been reduced to 9.5%. Its lowest level since 2007. This is expected to come down even more in the future. This allows them to use this additional liquidity to provide more credit. Approximately an additional injection of about 140 billion USD equivalent of liquidity.

- Cut of interest rates for business debt and mortgages, reduced from 3.35% to 3.15%. Incentivising more lending for families and businesses.

Additionally, they want to create [a new monetary policy tool to refloat the stock market, a swap program for securities, insurance companies and funds to obtain liquidity through asset collateralization](https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202409/24/content_WS66f22d00c6d0868f4e8eb322.html), essentially collateralized lending.

This essentially opens up 500 billion yan (\~70 billion USD) of liquidity with possible expansions in the future.

They're also intending to create a fund to 'stabilize the stock market'. Essentially a centrally planned monetary policy plan to artificially push the stock market up and property.

Lastly, for property purchases, they want to reduce the barrier of entry for 2nd home purchases, which used to be limited for banks to lend about 75% of the value of the property, but now banks can lend about 85% of the value of the property. For smaller local government entities, banks will be allowed to lend 100% of the value of properties if those local government entities want to buy those 'unpurchaseable' properties. Up until now banks were allowed to lend 60% of the value of those properties to those local government entities.

The People's Bank of China also said that this 'won't be enough' and that they will have to resort to fiscal stimulus as well.

Since September 13th, the CSI 300 (capitalization-weighted stock market index designed to replicate the performance of the top 300 stocks traded on the Shanghai Stock Exchange and the Shenzhen Stock Exchange) has since risen in price about 27%.

Generally if you're invested in this market, congratulations. For everyone else, this is generally very risky. Every time megastimulus plans like these are launched, enormous amounts of liquidity flow into perhaps not the most productive places in the economy, but instead often times those targeted sectors affected by the stimulus, regardless of the productivity of these markets or if they can even recover.

The fear and greed index of the CSI 300 and the ETF call volume have both risen to their highest level since 2015.

TL;DR: The People's Bank of China is applying a megastimulus to the economy to refloat the stock and property markets to a concerning extent.

Some articles in case anyone wants to do more reading: 

- <https://www.reuters.com/world/china/china-unveils-broad-stimulus-measures-revive-economy-2024-09-24/>

- <https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/chinas-central-bank-buys-200-bln-yuan-sovereign-bonds-september-2024-09-30/>

- <https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/chinas-central-bank-cuts-banks-reserve-requirement-ratio-by-50-bps-2024-09-27/>

- <https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2024/09/27/at-last-china-pulls-the-trigger-on-a-bold-stimulus-package>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 explains the utility of the EIGEN token</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ftg8jb/daily_general_discussion_october_1_2024/lpthpzq/)

Eigenlayer is a restaking protocol, which means it provides security/ trust for new protocols/ products that don't have the time/ money/ community to build it from scratch. People stake ETH to secure Ethereum and the same collateral can be reused ("restaked") to secure new L1s, L2s, oracles etc. 

Usually when you stake, you can be slashed when you misbehave. When you try to misbehave (e.g. double spend) on ETH mainnet this can (and will) be slashed and you will lose ETH as a consequence because this happens onchain and is easy to judge. 

But there are things that the blockchain/ nodes can't detect or that aren't easy to judge. These decisions are "intersubjective". Slashing isn't possible. One famous example is a data availability layer where a node withholds information. This doesn't happen onchain, because the submission of the data happens offchain. 

For these "intersubjective" cases $EIGEN comes into play. If people believe that nodes misbehaved they challenge the nodes, fork $EIGEN and hope that others follow their arguments and make their $EIGEN fork the new central token within Eigenlayer. Eigenlayer obviously can't and shouldn't even try to fork ETH, so they created their own token to take this task. 

tl;dr
  
ETH is used for objective misbehaviour

EIGEN is used of intersubjective misbehaviour

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/austonst updates us on Aestus and timing games and u/haurog starts a great conversation with Auston</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fu8i74/daily_general_discussion_october_2_2024/lpxpmjj/)

[u/austonst](https://reddit.com/u/austonst):

*Also posted in r/ethstaker, but I don't think people will mind seeing it here too:*

I'd like to share an article I've written about what u/KuDeTa and I are doing with respect to block proposal timing games for the Aestus relay. We've been experimenting with timing games for a while and in the interest of transparency would like to share our motivation, proposer-configurable parameters, and a bit of data.

The full article is here: <https://hackmd.io/@austonst-aestus/BJsvEoia6>

It's a little long to copy directly onto Reddit, but I can provide and elaborate on the main points:

* Block proposal timing games are unavoidable; at this point the best outcome is ensuring democratized access to high-quality timing management tools.
* Aestus will apply a safe delay to all getHeader requests coming from validators identified by user agent.
* Aestus's default timing games implementation results in a median delay of 735 ms.
* Validators looking to be more conservative or more aggressive may customize parameters by appending `?headerDelay={ms}&headerCutoff={ms}` to the Aestus listing in their mev-boost relay list.
* We encourage staking pools and relays to be transparent about timing games.

If you need some background on timing games, I provide a few links at the start. Timing games aren't a good thing in general: they're zero-sum for proposers and basically negative-sum when you consider the impact on network health. You can draw reasonable comparisons to an iterated n-player prisoner's dilemma, where once you know a handful of actors are always going to defect, it's in your best interest to defect as well, if only to mitigate your losses.

But this isn't too different from mev-boost: if we can't solve the problem (without protocol changes) we can at least reduce the advantage sophisticated actors have over everyone else. And when it comes to timing games, implementing them on the relay side with a careful eye towards consensus health should accomplish this. The article should cover the rest.

----

To quickly address the current hot topic, the blob-shaped elephant in the room whose ISP strangles their upload bandwidth: yeah, relay-side timing games will delay block publication (that's the point), giving less time for blobs to propagate around the network. But when you accept a bid over mev-boost, *the relay*--with its well-connected clients and prime data center location--will be the one responsible for initial block propagation.

If you use mev-boost with relay-side timing games, the block may be delayed but you can trust the relay to propagate it fast. If you don't use mev-boost at all, your client will produce a block ASAP but you need to trust your own network to propagate it. The middle ground may be [more interesting](https://x.com/nero_eth/status/1841214520896663887): mev-boost with timing games AND a `--min-bid` means you delay block production but may end up responsible for your own block propagation.

*If you're a validator concerned about local propagation after delays*, you could specify `?headerDelay=0` in your Aestus mev-boost entry to disable timing games at the cost of lowering bid value, though if you're doing that, make sure to also *remove* Ultrasound and BloXroute relays from your list, as they also run timing games (BloXroute does allow for timing configuration, but I think you need to pay for their validator gateway service separately). There's no point in making Aestus return a bid early if your mev-boost client is just going to sit there waiting 900 ms for the other relays' responses.

----

I'm always happy to discuss. Feel free to reply or reach out directly.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fu8i74/daily_general_discussion_october_2_2024/lpzdwqu/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

I dislike every part of this, but unfortunately timing games are a reality. Thank you for the transparency, making a reasonable compromise and especially the possibility to change the defaults. I think currently there is very little incentive for solo stakers to actively optimize for timing games as the execution layer income is just a small part of the overall income. As far as I see this year execution income is slightly above 10% of the overall staking income, at least for the 20 random validators I checked, and increasing that by timing games by another 1-2 percentage points is not really a lot. At least for me it is not worth it to compromise the network integrity over it. Obviously there are different opinions about it. If the MEV opportunity increases again it might become a more substantial part of the revenue. I think overall it shows for how little reward some actors are ready to compromise the Network. Not really surprising, but just interesting to keep in mind.

</details>
