---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-10-25
episode: 84
guest: Paul Brody
guest_topic: EY
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/MjQXaIY6l8
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=63KatZPvxmE
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1gbml3v/comment/ltmzi45/)

[u/DayTraderBiH](https://reddit.com/u/DayTraderBiH)

> Ethereum!

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2497.87

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.03688

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1gaux5i/comment/ltl2zmo/)

*Think before you act,*

*Onchain you are always tracked,*

*Government got hacked.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/timwithnotoolbelt</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1gaux5i/comment/ltj9dg6/)

I thought SOL was the ETH killer. Shouldn’t Kraken be building on Solana?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/MinimalGravitas makes a FUD fighting appreciation post</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g5j8g6/daily_general_discussion_october_17_2024/lsc76ca/)

Shout out to u/epic_trader for pushing back on the misinformation and false narratives on r/cc.

And a reminder for anyone with an interest in this space to take a look over there and in /ethereum periodically to provide some insights and sanity to discussions if you have any to spare. 

There's a lot of nonsense spread by Bitcoin maxis; /buttcoin moderators; and alt-L1 bagholders, and if you don't want them controlling the narrative on Ethereum then you can be the change you want to see.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/OurNumber4 covers some quantum computing news and u/haurog provides more context</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g5j8g6/daily_general_discussion_october_17_2024/lsc1g7f/)

[u/OurNumber4](https://reddit.com/u/OurNumber4):

Chinese researchers break RSA encryption with a quantum computer:

<https://www.csoonline.com/article/3562701/chinese-researchers-break-rsa-encryption-with-a-quantum-computer.html>

And here’s why is not a problem:

<https://crypto.stackexchange.com/questions/2612/difficulty-of-breaking-rsa-for-a-given-key-size>

Credit: r/cc (sometimes there is decent info in the comments)

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g5j8g6/daily_general_discussion_october_17_2024/lsc654y/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

To give a bit of context.

They used D-Waves quantum annealer which normally are not called quantum computers as they use a different principle. Generally these quantum annealers can only solve a very narrow set of optimization problems. When people talk about cracking cryptography they always refer to proper quantum computers for which for example Shor's algorithm has been developed. And to the best of my knowledge no one has a quantum computer to run Shor's algorithm even for the smallest of RSA key lengths.

The Chinese group found a way to use such a quantum annealer optimization to help to factorize a 50 bit RSA integer. Nowadays RSA key length should be at least 2048 bits long and normally should be 4096 bits long. To the best of my knowledge, the longest RSA key that has been cracked a few years ago was 829 bits long. Classical computer are still far ahead. 

As far as I see the paper itself has been published in a very niche journal which not really solidifies the credibility of their approach as the review process in many of these journals is severely lacking. Even more so than in established journals.

As far as I see the results are viewed negatively. See here for example for a more in depth discussion: <https://www.forbes.com/sites/craigsmith/2024/10/16/department-of-anti-hype-no-china-hasnt-broken-military-encryption-with-quantum-computers/>

Do not get me wrong. Quantum computers are an important thing to keep in mind and follow. This result published by this group is just not very meaningful but it might be a small step in the direction we expect the quantum computing space to go. Not today, not tomorrow, but in a few years. Overall, the progress is slower than I expected it a few years ago, but we are definitely in the direction of quantum computers becoming a problem for encryption in our lifetime.


Source: I think a few years ago the majority of large quantum computing labs ran an qubit stabilization algorithm I helped develop in the company I was working at. Not sure how many actually used it, but most of them bought it. I left the company many years ago now, but still meet former colleagues and we chat about the development in this space.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll starts a discussion about FUD busting Ethereum</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g71lyc/daily_general_discussion_october_19_2024/lsnwy1c/)

Do you guys think that there would be value in some sort of FUD busting Ethereum platform a bit like what EthHub used to be in 2018 - 2020 which we could use to combat things like the misinformation and link to in response to all of the blatant lies which gets spread on places like r/ethereum and Twitter?

I'm still unemployed after finishing my masters and I love learning more about Ethereum and helping to bust all of the FUD in other subreddits but I don't know anything about making websites and then also finding a way to integrate the easy answers and information into places where it is needed like r/ethereum and Twitter. Maybe this could be a good project to spin out of EVMavericks. Anyway, I'd happily create content for such a place, a bit like more permanent posts like many dooters here make from time to time. A bit of an Ethereum FUD fighting handbook. I actually just did a grant ecosystem outline for EthStaker and I can tell you that there's plenty of grant money up for grabs for legitimate projects.

So what do you guys think? Is such a thing needed? Does it already exist? And if it is needed and doesn't already exist, could we spin something up out of this community?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/18boro starts a discussion about blob fees and u/pa7x1 weights in on the issue and its proposed change</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g71lyc/daily_general_discussion_october_19_2024/lsnkso0/)

[u/18boro](https://reddit.com/u/18boro):

I'm sorta following the discussions around the proposal on a minimum cost for blobs. Since this is currently not production ready, this will be implemented in pectra 2 at the earliest right? 

Also, thoughts on this? It makes sense to me, but my technical understanding is very superficial. We really can't afford blobs to enter a potentially high fee market, that will erode their purpose as a low fee environment on ethereum. That means we need to continue increasing blobs capacity, but with no minimum cost the L2s will continue to live free on ethereum.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g71lyc/daily_general_discussion_october_19_2024/lsplj0d/)

[u/pa7x1](https://reddit.com/u/pa7x1):

One way to think about it. The current min blob fee is 1 Wei, this figure is as arbitrary as any other. It just happens to be the minimal denomination of ETH in the protocol. So it was a lazy choice, or maybe better put, a lack of explicit choice that happened to set the minimal blob price there. If the minimal denomination of ETH would have been higher, that same lazy choice would have resulted in a different minimal base fee.

A more sensible choice is to place it somewhere where blobs are still very cheap when used under capacity, so that the network incentivizes adoption. But when the network observes actual demand blob price discovery can happen in a reasonably short time frame. The EIP makes an attempt to do exactly this. And to be honest, the precise figure you set it at does not matter that much up to a few orders of magnitude up or down, because the exponential update of the blob fee can act relatively quickly. 

So I'm in favor of the change. There is perhaps smarter things that can be done with the fee markets of blob and gas. There are some interesting proposals for using AMMs, PIDs, etc... I think those deserve to be explored too, but they are more complex and need to be very well understood economically. This EIP is just a very quick and risk-free fix to an obvious problem with the current blob pricing.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dreth provides some good perspective on where Ethereum is currently at</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1gaux5i/daily_general_discussion_october_24_2024/ltkbx86/)

Believe it or not, the blobs upgrade might be one of the bigger reasons why ETH isn't doing much better price wise. I'm not sure if traders generally consider this a factor, though I would imagine they do given that ETH performed much better relative to BTC (as it had historically) between The Merge and the last upgrade.

Blobs have given the apparent impression that Ethereum is empty and with no activity. The L2 scaling roadmap allows for absolutely *explosive* activity on L2s, but it makes L1 seem deserted when that L2 activity isn't saturating L1. 

Is this bad? No, it's fantastic, it is just a consequence of the upgrade and activity not exploding _just yet_, but this is an illusion. If you take a look at L2Beat in mid 2023 and today, the amount of new L2s is absolutely ridiculous. It seems like there's more new L2s than new apps and it is insanely easy to underestimate the potential effects of this.

While everyone is looking at useless ratios like ETH/BTC or ETH/SOL, plenty of new projects are appearing to develop their own L2s. Ethereum is no longer just an 'app chain' it is a chain of chains. Pretty much what Polkadot or Cosmos set out to be, but in a more 'open' way so to speak. I don't understand in full depth the implementation of app chains in these two other projects, but in Ethereum I know projects can have plenty of different configurations regarding where data is stored, where execution happens, etc etc. The appearance of macro-protocols like Eigenlayer is a clear telling that there's money to be made in scaling Ethereum, and this is where I presume most of the investor liquidity coming to fund projects on Ethereum is going. I'd be worried when this stops, but not right now.

In some way, what has been built on Ethereum is the ability to have external anchored applications, chains or other products of this kind which benefit from inheriting some level of security from the base layer blockchain.

So who's using this? Users I guess? Right now there may not be enough activity to justify the price increasing, as Ethereum being saturated in some way equates to 'cash flows'. Right now, given that the future of Ethereum's L2 and base layer explosive activity is 'on pause' as the upgrade _just kicked in earlier this year_, it is hard for investors estimate the value of those cash flows.

For BTC, the expectation that Bitcoin (the blockchain) will make any changes to itself in order to accomodate new featuresets is pretty much non-existent. On Ethereum, the fact that the base layer can be upgraded and changed allows for new concepts to emerge, for current concepts to be improved, etc. So Ethereum is inherently dependent on the combination of upgrades and activity improving its future cash flows (fees from on-chain activity). Right now, this is lackluster or inconsistent, so once this activity starts kicking in, which might depend or not on price, the consistency of those cash flows will be more visible. 

Basically, It's hard to justify investing large amounts of capital in a peer-to-peer network native currency when there's not enough certainty about its future cash flows. Before the upgrade such a comparatively meaningless amount of activity would saturate the chain that future cash flows were 'easier to expect'.

I think there's several reasons why BTC is outperforming ETH this year:

1. Historically this is the pattern in bullish periods (BTC outperforms, then it doesn't)
2. The BTC ETFs started trading earlier in the year, when the war in the middle east wasn't at its absolute height of explosiveness, when the economy had a better outlook because the high interest rates hadn't affected the US job market, the profitability of the carry trade etc, etc. There's many macroeconomic reasons we can point out, but back in early 2024, things looked WAY better than now even when plenty of banks had collapsed the year prior due to high interest rates. They don't look _that_ bad now, but the outlook was very bleak during the summer.
3. The ETH ETFs were a complete uncertainty, now they're a reality, but they started trading in quite literally the _weakest_ moment in the market of this year.
4. Network activity on Ethereum has apparently subsided significantly (not really, but this is what it would seem like to the untrained eye, this is related to what I explained in the post)
5. BTC is simply more popular not only due to its brand name, that too, but very importantly because it is a very static, unchanging asset with very little medium-term uncertainty, akin to gold. Which is something investors like. ETH is more uncertain.
6. BTC seems to have no competition, ETH seems to have competition, even if it really doesn't.

You'd really have to be really deep into the rabbit hole to understand the value of ETH and the Ethereum blockchain beyond the surface-level perspective an investor trading many many assets in a traditional sense would have. Many traders trade based on cash flows and certainty of cash flows, and Ethereum carries some uncertainty with it and is having a 'weak' year in terms of cash flows.

I won't get into why SOL is outperforming ETH in any meaningful level of detail, but in short, from my perspective:

- the hype around memecoins (expectation of cash flows drives liquidity seeking returns in large numbers)
- the fact that it's a smaller marketcap asset
- the price is lower and you can buy 'a whole unit of it'
- there's apparent activity on it
- it's boosted by entities that want to pump the shit out of it to seek exit liquidity
- it has a lot of marketing due to the previous point
- it has provided extraordinary returns this year, so there's expectation that this will keep on happening
- most of the supply is held by entities that don't sell it (large stakers and node operators which additionally receive most of the inflation)
- etc etc

If anyone reads this wall of text pls correct me if you find any flaws in my reasoning. I hope it helps some have some perspective as to why I believe ETH's performance this year has been lackluster comparatively to other assets.

Edit: small tweaks, typo fixes and corrected some term precision (I try not to use ETH and Ethereum interchangeably, as ETH is the asset and Ethereum is the network)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth brings us a layer 2 ecosystem update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g7rawa/daily_general_discussion_october_20_2024/lsu9p98/)

Layer 2 Update - growthepie

Sorry I haven't been as active lately IRL sometimes gets in the way but I'm back with a longer L2 update to try and cover everything I have missed.  


- Layer 2s are growing so fast they have normalized All Time Highs  
- Layer 2s have more value locked in ETH than Stablecoins  
- Layer 2 Stablecoins have grown the equivalent of a small country's GDP this year:  
- Base Fees spiked to 20 cents largely due to PRIME  
- Base Throughput continues to be raised weekly   
- Layer 2 DeFi Transaction Count is on the rise  
- Metis Active Addresses reach All Time High  
- Optimism Transaction count on the rise   
- Arbitrum seeing Gas Fee spikes for NFT usage  
- Taiko Transaction Count makes a strong recovery putting them back in 2nd place  
- Base multi-chain activity is trending downwards while others are increasing   
- You can now compare onchain Economics on our Economics page  
- Scroll hits a new all-time high on Transaction counts and Throughput (airdrop season)  
- Layer 2 token transfers (the simplest of transactions) approaching a new all time high  
- Weekly Active Addresses continue to remain strong  
- Blobs have burned over 1,000 ETH - with Base having the highest ratio of blob costs for the year  
- New report by Coinbase "Guide to Crypto Markets: Q4 2024" featuring Ethereum and Layer 2s favorably  
- Mantle and Scroll TVL are both on the rise and battling to beat each other  
- We continue to track more Layer 2s, adding Derive and Oderly with more to come  
- Reminder if you need to find an address use our labels page search feature (we are adding Ethereum L1 soon too)  
- Base on track to double the Throughput of the whole layer 2 ecosystem in less than a year   
- We had some great Gitcoin rounds thanks to all that donated - small donations make a big difference  
- growthepie is now active in onchain governance - currently for ZKsync, Arbitrum and Optimisum (more on the way) please consider delegating to us  
- We have improved our zoom feature   
- Layer 2 TVL  measured in ETH is up only  
- Blobs have seen spikes in the past but not so much in the past 90 days with us approaching the target is this going to change?  
- Ethereum doesn't have problems - Ethereum has improvements waiting to be implemented... Layer 2s are part of the solution  
- Reminder to compare Layer 2s use our single chain pages and use the compare feature   
- Over half of the Layer 2s we cover are "General Purpose" and they account for 97.9% of weekly active addresses  
- Vitalik highlights Optimism in working on chain neutral Crosschain interfaces  
- Layer 2s have used \~280 GB of blobs this year- Low L2 fees are less than a year old the space is young

Hit me up with any Layer 2 questions or observations and I will do my best to get back to you!

Side note we also released new Octant Funding Tracker metrics so be sure to check them out and get involved in the latest round (we are not participating as we missed out on getting selected but we are tracking all the amazing projects that got through)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 briefs us on our community Scroll delegate u/defewit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g8i1bx/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2024/lsyyrsz/)

gm!

Scroll snapshot was on Saturday and I think the airdrop happens tomorrow. For the last two weeks we have been [searching for a community delegate](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g405r7/comment/ls0pz8g/) and u/[defewit](https://reddit.com/user/defewit/) is willing to represent the us in the Scroll ecosystem, thank you for that! I think it's been possible to set up a delegate profile since a few days, have you done that alreaady? If so, would you share it here, so we can link it tomorrow?

Also if there is a second delegate that would be beautiful. I think it's always easier and better if there are two people that know each other (at least a little bit) to discuss things in private first, then post either on the governance forum or ask for feedback here. So any second member willing to do this, happy to share your profile tomorrow as well!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/supephiz introduces us to the Ephemery testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g9aee7/daily_general_discussion_october_22_2024/lt7mw0j/)

Depending on how long you've been around, you may or may not know that I got popular in Ethereum by creating early [video guides](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iyd7_Y0BY_c) showing how to spin up validators on testnets.

Well, the [ephemery](https://ephemery.dev) testnet is very exciting to me, and on Thursday, 10/24, I'm planning to release a video guide showing how to create a validator on it.

Ephemery is a re-generating short-lived testnet designed for testing, especially for people who want to stake. The testnet resets every 28 days, and all of the unused Ether is recycled. (My current understanding is that if you're running an active validator you can keep that 32 Ether in the new instance.)

EthStaker recently [hosted a call with Ephemery developers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sG_b1HkQnno) and now I'm excited about sharing a video guide to help people get a validator running on it. it IS getting polished, but right now there's still a fair barrier of experience to getting on it.

I think the most exciting thing for me is the opportunity to play slashing games without any fear of consequences. I hope you'll join me :)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth brings us the EVMavericks weekly recap</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g9aee7/daily_general_discussion_october_22_2024/lt4sf0a/)

[**EVMavericks Weekly Recap (October 14-20)**](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2Fe17660420cc4481dbd129e031cff5e60.png&w=1200&q=75)

[Blog & Newsletter on Paragraph](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks)

**Your weekly EVMavericks catch-up: highlights of the week!**

1. Octant's Epoch 5 allocation window has started and runs till October 27th. If you have GLM staked, please support [Doots](https://octant.app/project/5/0x09A38B6187a2c44B6ba71c277c50764B5878b824)  and [Aestus](https://octant.app/project/5/0xa095Ee27B11FCAac8e1be84891ab62C74F08C854)

2. [Weekly Doots produces another episode of Doots - #83 - featuring James from Octant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sA4VrGtlg_8&ab_channel=EVMavericks-Ethfinance)

3. [Get to know our next EVMavericks - eleusys](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks/eleusys-1140)

4. Creators share: [Ben Meadow's first Gamma Print was displayed in Bali](https://x.com/TheBenMeadows/status/1845249648153547136). [Cyber Sea's Deus Ex Machina was exhibited in museum in Amsterdam!](https://x.com/CyberSeaNFT/status/1846501553714204925)

5. Luuk starts a discussion about biggest 2025 Ethereum related events in USA or nearby. So far we have: 

   ETH Denver, from Feb 27 - Mar 2 (with Buidl Week Feb 23-26)

   Permissionless Probably October 2025

   Consensus (may 14- 16 2025) Toronto CANADA

6. Degen chat this week: animal pictures from Luuk's trip, mentions of Vitalik and how he deals with memecoins, some charts & TA, new discord like site - townsxyz ([yielddady created a server for EVMavericks](https://app.towns.com/t/0x0f4d274118519c66e60e17eff6e8c6a088b9c78c/ )), EFP and poaps, memes, food pictures and discussions, some memecoin alpha too & more!

7. Farmers are a little bit over the place but main focus has been on scroll.

8. Our memecoins warriors keep going. This is where we have the most money making alpha right now. [Some of the top calls of the week](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2F2c54f6bf0bf40e200ee0d914742da5b2.png&w=1200&q=75)

9. More bullish chatter from people in the #daily-discussion. Some TA & long form posts. Shoutout to Erowind for bringing top quality content there!

10. Also if anyone knows Spanish and wants to speak on our behalf and represent our community with NacionBankless then please ping 696!

Lastly, **your weekly security reminder**: here are a [few guides](https://imgur.com/a/wallet-security-guides-DSvQrXs)!

* EVMavericks discord has a security channel. You can literally mute everything else but that channel and only get notifications from there.

* Reminder for all the folks: we have a daily-discussion channel in the discord that's open to public and there's a decent amount of activity there!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/interweaver discusses the difference between price and value</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ga2kk9/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2024/ltgiqcy/)

It is fascinating to me how many people, here and elsewhere, still haven't realized that **price** and **value** are two separate concepts, only extremely loosely bound by the collective (un)intelligence of the market. 

On the one hand, this means that poor price performance does not, and should not, imply anything about the fundamental value of something. Many r/ethwhinance posters make that mistake: they see Eth the asset performing badly compared to other (cherry-picked) assets on certain (cherry-picked) timelines, and feel the need to build a (counterfactual) narrative about how Ethereum the platform must therefore be falling behind on most fundamental metrics. 

On the other hand, it means that even outstanding fundamental value does not guarantee anything about price performance on any particular timeline. Many bull posters here, myself included, have fallen into this trap: assuming that Ethereum's stellar fundamentals mean we will see good price performance in the near/medium-term future. This is equally a logical misstep; the most innately valuable asset in the world can be sold for precisely $0 if nobody understands why it should be valued.

Arguments will be made about how the "markets are efficient" and that price and value should be tightly coupled, but I will emphatically suggest that at least in the realm of crypto, the markets and their participants have been and remain to this day, in overwhelming majority, catastrophically ignorant. This will change in time, but I'm increasingly realizing that this time will be measured in decades, not in months or years.

If you can avoid the trap of assuming a timely or intelligent linkage between price and value in either direction, you will save yourself needless hand-wringing, avoid getting your hopes up prematurely, and perhaps (if you are still in a position to be patient and stay informed) realize the opportunity this massive informational asymmetry *still* presents, years and years after we first started noticing it. 

Probably the most fundamental assumption of investing (as opposed to gambling) is the proposition that *eventually*, over some arbitrarily long timeframe, markets *do* finally realize what's up, and price *does* synchronize with value. And when that happens, those of us who didn't give up on Ethereum because the ignorant markets were ignoring Ether, and yet who also didn't let all the bull posts convince us to take unwise risks and were therefore able to stay in the game long-term - when that happens, we will be very, *very* happy.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/NextLevelFantasy introduces the latest Gitcoin grant round to us</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ga2kk9/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2024/lteoyup/)

**[GG22](https://grants.gitcoin.co/)** is live and the donation window is open for 2 weeks. Over $1.4M in matching funds so make sure your Passport.xyz score is updated. Enjoy the perpetual vibes in the 24/7 [Let's GROW Live twitter space](https://x.com/LetsGROWdao/status/1848884594046534005) and [Gitcoin is hosting spaces](https://lu.ma/gitcoin?tag=gg22 ) as well.

**Gitcoin Open Source Software Rounds**

* Dev Tooling
* Web3 Infrastructure
* dApps and Apps
* Hackathon Alumni

**Community Rounds**

* Land Regenerators: Ma Earth Grants Round 2
* ENS Ecosystem
* BioFi Pathfinders
* Growing the Public Gardens
* Allo Builders Advancement 
* Regen Citizens Genesis
* Youth in Need

</details>
