---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-03-22
episode: 59
guest: Adam Blumberg
guest_topic: "[Interaxis](https://www.interaxis.io/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/14xavFCOd7
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0EO0BsAOnx4
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/171366
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bksave/comment/kw0bgmg/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 89,714 hodlers subscribed (+11)

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> $3517

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> 0.0528

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bf7318/comment/kv2duzh/)

*Good code for your peers,*

*Great discussions and some beers,*

*Blockchain pioneers.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Choda time!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bjzmh0/comment/kvwj0we/)

༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ ETH TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/ev1501</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bj6k75/daily_general_discussion_march_20_2024/kvr1s7s/)

I wish the ETF passes and gets pushed down all the haters throats like bad medicine.

In May, when SEC nods in grace,<br>
ETH ETF takes its rightful place.<br>
Skeptics scowl, in disbelief they stare,<br>
As Ethereum soars, slicing through despair.

"Impossible!" they cried, their words so cold,<br>
Yet forward moves the future, bold.<br>
Their doubts, like shadows, quickly flee,<br>
As ETH ascends, for all to see.

The haters cope, their voices dim,<br>
Against the tide, their chances slim.<br>
For in this dance of digital fate,<br>
Ethereum's rise, they can't abate.

So let them cope, let them despair,<br>
While Ethereum's light fills the air.<br>
For in the end, it's clear to see,<br>
The SEC's nod sets Ethereum free.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog highlights a post about Optimism's new fee structure</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bf7318/daily_general_discussion_march_15_2024/kuyoc9h/)

It might have gone under in yesterdays daily, but u/KnowNoShade  posted a very [interesting link](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1beea63/daily_general_discussion_march_14_2024/kuydcgu/) about the new fee structure on Optimism and why they had such a huge reduction in cost after the Dencun hardfork. Blobs alone could not have reduced the fees by that much. What optimism did in addition was that Optimism started to consider priority fees in their fee calculation. The base fee can be close to 0 and optimism still makes enough money through the priority fee. Optimism does not directly subsidize transactions, but the way they calculate the transactions and set average gas usage for the base fee to increase it essentially means that the actors which pay a high priority fee are indirectly subsidizing the fees for the other users. And apparently there are enough users paying a high priority fee which makes OP chains still profitable. Quite interesting to be honest. According [Ryan Berckmans tweet](https://twitter.com/ryanberckmans/status/1768290443425366273) OP Mainnet and Base still make enough money through priority fees. I am not sure if this is also true for Zora as I would expect not too many people pay a priority fee there, I might be wrong there though. Overall, I think it is quite interesting how Dencun now has kicked off a rollup fee competition. Apparently arbitrum will also [improve their fees soon](https://twitter.com/arbitrum/status/1767956874031444286).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi has some ARB delegate updates</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bf7318/daily_general_discussion_march_15_2024/kuznmae/)

Few more ARB DAO updates beyond [what I brought up a few days ago](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bcq1is/comment/kuiy35b/), more personal to what I've been up to if anyone is curious. (As well as open to feedback before I go 'live' with one of these items).

Late to the party, but ARB did release their 2023 Transparency Reporting (<https://docs.arbitrum.foundation/foundation-documents#transparency-reports>). If anyone wants to give it a read there is some good things too look at, although I will note page 11 might be my favorite :). And please note that 100% of the work was done by Questbook, I was just there becase I posted it to Tally / Snapshot. Just having a "LeonardoDeCapriopointsatthetv" moment.

I'll admit this sort of came up in January and then I got busy so it got pushed aside once Feb rolled around, but I'm probably going to start working towards it now that I have the time... I'm going to try to get some of ARB's council election processes standardized. More info here (<https://forum.arbitrum.foundation/t/rfc-create-a-standardized-guideline-for-non-security-council-elections/20915>). Basically, these different councils have elections and the process isn't very standard as different people are running the programs each time. I think that detracts from how effective these elections can be. My thought is that a minimum there is a lot of community support for "Shielded" voting (results hidden until completion). So I'm hoping at least that will get support, as I'm breaking it our into three categories:

  
\- Mandating certain election types be used to avoid common pitfalls with less effective voting methods.

\- Mandating "Shielded" voting, as there are too many ways to game the election if results are public as they go along.

\- Mandating some type of minimum period for applicants to apply for roles to ensure we can get the best possible field possible.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Sparta89 covers the fee flippening while u/pa7x1 explains why Ethereum is only just getting started</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bfzcrp/daily_general_discussion_march_16_2024/kv5ovfc/)

[u/Sparta89](https://reddit.com/u/Sparta89):

Solana fees have spiked and are currently \~4X higher than most L2 fees. The Solana low fee narrative is dying.

Solana average fee (24 hours): \~$0.048

Optimism/Starknet average fee (24 hours): \~$0.01

  
Sources:  

- <https://solanacompass.com/statistics/fees> 
- <https://l2fees.info/>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bfzcrp/daily_general_discussion_march_16_2024/kv5rcnm/)

[u/pa7x1](https://reddit.com/u/pa7x1):

And with some very rough numbers L2s may scale 3x their use of blobspace without even raising the blob fee. Currently the network is averaging 1 blob per block. So until it reaches 3 or more blobs per block there won't be actual pressure on the blob fee. <https://dune.com/hildobby/blobs>

According to l2beat the L2s did yesterday 133 tps. A factor of x3 will place it around 400 tps. Solana seems to do around 500 tps. <https://realtps.net/>

With this rough numbers Ethereum seems to have beaten in scalability Solana. Can manage same order of magnitude tps but cheaper. But unlike Solana it has an actual roadmap to keep scaling:

- Blobspace can be increased trivially and it will be increased when demand is there.
- With some tweaks to calldata pricing we will likely increase gas space very soon because the current gas limit is very conservative. 
- Blobs have already reduced around 33% the state growth rate. And stateless Ethereum is in the works.
- Full danksharding provides a credible roadmap to scale tps by multiple orders of magnitude.

All that without having to give up on decentralization.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BuyETHorDAI shares a futuristic Ethereum demo</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bfzcrp/daily_general_discussion_march_16_2024/kv5y4n0/)

I saw a presentation at EthDenver that used a mock dapp from the future, showing what the UX would be like if we had the complete roadmap. In this case it was for buying and selling cars and had assumptions baked in like digital identity, smart wallet, etc.. I really like these types of demos and would be cool to see more. This is the video I'm talking about: <https://youtu.be/TrLbTglwzXg>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/vvpan mulls over decentralisation</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bgqm1m/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2024/kvbn81r/)

"Decentralization" is a complicated term. In crypto we usually see the system as decentralized based on criteria like "how many nodes have to collude to censor the system" or "how many nodes need to be taken out for the system to fail" or "how difficult it is for a single entity to take over governance". But there is a more traditional meaning for decentralization, a pre-digital one, which defines it not as a large system but many local ones and this is where blockchain has some shortcomings.

I am on this subreddit for the blockchain ideologies that resonate with me (and ma bags, of course). But I would also say that being "all in" is not great. Take Bitcoin maxis. The idea that all the complexity of expression and exchange of value should be scorched and replaced by a single system derived from a single limited resource (which at the onset has every uneven distribution) to me is nothing short of fascist. That idea is despotic and anti-human in the sense that it deprives us (you know, the people who are supposed to be benefitting) from the ability to decide how we want to express human relationships.

Now fans of smart contract chains (say Ethereum) are not Bitcoin maxis at all. Smart contracts are foundation for building any kind of system on top of it. In case of Ethereum experimentation and possibility of human expression (new forms of value, new forms of organization, new forms of interaction) are at the core of the ethos. Yet a blockchain network is still a single system, with one governance, with one limited-supply token, requiring electricity and internet, insecure and with potential middlemen. That said I think what is actually a corollary to Ethereum ethos is  cherishing of the good meat-space things - not everything needs to be onchain, digital has security limitations, organization comes in many forms, non-digital governance is important.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/5quat summarises the EtherFi airdrop</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bgqm1m/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2024/kvd7a3f/)

**High level summary**

1. We listened to our community and increased our token allocation by over 10M tokens, representing an additional 1% of total supply
2. For Season 1, in total we're giving away 68M tokens, representing 6.8% of supply
3. The average size of airdrop each user received was 575 tokens, the median was 175 tokens
4. The largest allocation was for approximately 3M tokens, this individual deposited $480M during the Final Countdown campaign
5. Deposits during the Final Countdown campaign resulted in an increase of 7.7M tokens for everyone else!

**Season 1 Token Allocation:** 90% to stakers 6% to partners 4% to Early Adopters (fan NFT Holders and EAP participants) Stakers received a proportional share of the 90% (59M tokens), the distribution was linear but skewed in favor of smaller stakers Bottom 50% of wallets contributed 1.8% of TVL and received 18% of token allocation Top 10% of wallets contributed 88% of TVL, and received 65% of token allocation **Eligibility Rules:** *What were the rules to be eligible?* Anyone who earned more than 1000 points or more from staking 1,000 points was equivalent to staking 1 ETH for 1 day, or staking 0.1 ETH for 10 days Holders of fan NFTs received 430 tokens for each NFT Participating solo-stakers in Operation Solo Staker received 4200 tokens Badge holders and referrers received boosted allocation *Specifically who wasn’t eligible?* Users with less than 1000 points from staking activity, (i.e. if a users points came entirely from badges, they didn’t get an airdrop) Users who didn't not transition out of the EAP

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/shiftli reminds us of a growing scam to watch out for</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bgqm1m/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2024/kvcgbdp/)

Appears to be wallet running an "address poisoning" scam:

Scammer -> new wallet -> victim

The scammer sends a small amount of eth dust to a newly created wallet, which sends it to the victim. The new wallet W* is created to have the same first and last four characters in the address as an address W the victim transacted with recently.

The idea is that the victim in a future transaction copies the target address from the transaction history and because of the address similarity takes the scammer-controlled wallet W* instead of the legit wallet W.

Good catch!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptrd285 shares another L for the SEC</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bhjqu7/daily_general_discussion_march_18_2024/kvhqw4i/)

SEC absolutely got bodied here. It should help with ETH ETF filing, I would think. I am sure SEC doesn't want another embrassment

<https://twitter.com/iampaulgrewal/status/1769835308559032608>

"For the reasons explained below, the court imposes sanctions against the Commission for bad faith conduct in obtaining, maintaining, and defending the TRO, and denies the Commission’s Motion to Dismiss without prejudice to refile in accordance with the District of Utah’s Local Rules.The Commission’s above-discussed conduct constitutes a gross abuse of the power entrusted to it by Congress and substantially undermined the integrity of these proceedings and the judicial process."

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi has a HOP governance update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bhjqu7/daily_general_discussion_march_18_2024/kvfvj5b/)

A quick HOP governance update. Although honestly it's a pretty light one as ultimately most votes over the last few months have been fairly standard DAO things. To run through a quick list ([https://snapshot.org/#/hop.eth](https://snapshot.org/#/hop.eth)):

* Vote "For" operational items - Community Multisig Refill (3), retroactive pay for moderators and renewal of the delegative incentivization trails
* Vote "For" AMM Incentives to new pairs that came to the HOP DAO to align with incentives provided to other pools
* Vote "For" exploring treasury diversification. It's been sort of a 'everyone agrees, but not much has gone forward' situation but I'm hoping as a broad concept for some diversification. As I don't think DAOs should be expected to have their treasury 100% allocated in their specific token. 
* And Voted "For" creating a new 'head of the DAO' role. The goal being to have someone who helps keep the DAO moving instead of relying specifically on the good will of delegates to take on projects. Such as running the bi-weekly calls, for example. I think this will help with some of the stagnation the DAO has seen of late. 

I'll also share that I've been heading HOP's application for the upcoming 12 week ARB grant program. Me and two other delegates that assisted with this just submitted our [finalized application located here](https://forum.arb.seamonkey.tech//t/hop-protocol-ltipp-application-final/21830). The goal is to subsize bridging fees to Arbitrum, as well as incentivize AMM pools, over those 12 weeks. Decision pending council / DAO vote, but I was really happy how it came out. So I have my fingers crossed.

Which, btw shout out to u/seamonkey82 as you'll notice a link to a certain ARB forum actually works now :)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BigglyBillBrasky shares some big news from BlackRock</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bidash/daily_general_discussion_march_19_2024/kvmo87n/)

Ya'll we're in before BlackRock 🥂

"JUST IN: BlackRock launches digital asset fund and deposits $100 million $USDC on the Ethereum network."

<https://twitter.com/WatcherGuru/status/1770177665099596282>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Syentist has the latest on the gas limit increase movement</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bidash/daily_general_discussion_march_19_2024/kvlyn71/)

[Eric and Mariano starting an awareness campaign](https://twitter.com/econoar/status/1770136717401419859) to increase gas limit from 30 to 40mn. 

Gas limit can be increased in a coordinated and rational manner by validators. It doesn't need a hard fork. 

This is the exact amount that Vitalik suggested [during an AMA last year](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/wtvb9Sa9oD)

> How much gas limit can we safely increase now? and after Verkle?
> 
> Honestly, I think doing a modest gas limit increase even _today_ is reasonable. The gas limit has not been increased for [nearly three years](https://etherscan.io/chart/gaslimit), which is the longest time ever in the protocol's history (that 2x bump in the chart in late 2021 is "fake", in that it reflects the EIP-1559 transition, which increased the "limit" by 2x but only increased actual average usage by [~9%](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/p4nloh/why_has_the_chain_capacity_increased_by_9_after/)). And so splitting the post-2021 gains from Moore's law 50/50 between increased capacity and increased ease of syncing/verification would imply an increase to around 40M or so.

Long overdue and Godspeed!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 tries to prepare us for what is to come</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bj6k75/daily_general_discussion_march_20_2024/kvpf5hr/)

If this drop bothers you, I potentially have bad news for you. Well, not really, but if we are really just at the start of a bull run, similar drops at higher USD values might make you sick... So prepare mentally for crazy stuff that will happen. Some random numbers to showcase the things we might be witnessing:

Disclaimer: Everything that follows is based on the assumption that your whole portfolio is in ETH and that we basically went from 4k to 3k (which, at least until now, we didn't, but we also peaked slightly over 4k, so 25% is as good as it gets). You're probably a little diversified, so your port value fluctuates a little differnet. Just pretend it is 100% ETH! 

If you have: 

* 25 ETH = 100k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 25k in a week
* 50 ETH = 200k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 50k in a week
* 100 ETH = 400k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 100k in a week
* 250 ETH = 1M USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 250k in a week

Good news: 1 ETH = 1 ETH, but from my experience from the last cycle it's the USD value that hurts. 

Bad news: If this is just the start of a bull we might 2.5x from 4k to 10k or even 4x to something like 15-16k. This is great, but a 25% drop will hurt even more. With ETH = 10k USD

* 25 ETH = 250k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 62.5k in a week
* 50 ETH = 500k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 125k in a week
* 100 ETH = 1M USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 250k in a week
* 250 ETH = 2.5M USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 625k in a week

or with ETH hitting 16kish

* 25 ETH = 400k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by **100k** in a week
* 50 ETH = 800k USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 200k in a week
* 100 ETH = 1.5M USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by 375k in a week
* 250 ETH = 4M USD a 25% drop like this cut your USD portfolio by **1M** in a week

Now why am I posting this? I know I can't really prepare you for these scenarios. You probably will have to go through these to really understand what this means. Also let me tell you I have **no** idea how I will feel *if* we hit 10k or 16k and drop 25%. May 2021 (basically down only from 4k to 2k within 2 weeks and even below 2k within 2 months) killed a lot of emotions and changed me long term I think. But if you just joined in the last 2 years, you should try to play through some scenarios and get used to losing a lot (USD) value in a short amount of time. 

And while I am at it... Think about how you would feel if we hit 15k and then the bear hits and we go down 75% :)

</details>
