---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-10-11
episode: 82
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/AKIFOgwzOa
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ke0QOHJiQWk
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g127sk/comment/lrda7qt/)

[u/hehechibby](https://reddit.com/u/hehechibby)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2400.01

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.03972

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g0bcb1/daily_general_discussion_october_10_2024/lrblksi/)

*SEC turns cold,*

*Another story gets told,*

*The issuer won't fold.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Itur_ad_Astra</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fzjust/comment/lr491lj/)

You know what the ETH graph reminds me of? Definitely not a crab.

A Crab Market would be a stable unmoving price, progressing the graph in a flat line to the left. Maybe with equal up/down slow waves. But the current action is much more annoying.

Have you noticed snails exploring their surroundings using their eye tentacles? They slowly extend them, touch something, and then rapidly retract them back.

That's what ETH does. Every time it slowly probes a few USD above its price, it rapidly withdraws back in fear. As if hit by electricity. Slow candle up, instant withdrawal back down. Especially funny in the one-minute chart, but it can be seen in all time-frames.

So I officially propose that we are in a Snail Market. 🐌

I might need sleep.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog brings Vitaliks talk from Token2049</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fv071m/comment/lq3nd6h/)

For those who missed it or could not understand anything in the shaky videos that were available until just a few days ago, Vitaliks famous talk from Token2049 is now on youtube: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JpOSqLjYb0o&list=PLvSllGeSAEeeFUUcy7kKk0VIs4YNDhspY>

He is asking himself if we are still early and what he is excited about in the next 10 years. He thinks we are not early anymore, but we are still early for crypto being useful. He ties this into his experiences paying with crypto for daily necessities and why it failed originally. Hint, it was the fees and the overall user experience (UX). In the last years to UX improved massively due to EIP1559 and the the switch to POS. The recent dencun upgrade introduced blobs which dropped the fees to close to zero. Before all these improvements, the underlying technology was limiting what could be built on top and how successful it could become. These limitations are not the bottleneck anymore, but we still need a reason to actually use the applications built on crypto. He argues that the resilience and robustness of the underlying blockchain is what matters the most, but the UX on top needs to be good as well. Preserving the underlying advantages of the Ethereum network and being able to improve the UX for mainstream users should be the key goal. He sees a few places where there will be the most improvements in the next years.

- Wallet tradeoffs and how multisigs, guardians and the combination with zkproofs have or will improve that space. This allows web2 UX with web3 robustness. 

- Social media where you actually own the account (warpcast).

- Payment wallets which are getting close to venmo experience.

- Privacy pools were you can proof to not be the bad guy without revealing who you are. This exists in an early version at least. 

- Zk proofs in social media will make it possible to proof that you fullfill certain criterias without revealing who you are.

- L1 improvements: Single slot finality, verkle trees (statelessness), handling MEV on the protocol level, ZK snarkifying the L1 and light clients

These improvements will allow Ethereum to thread the needle and become mainstream user friendly while staying true to the underlying cypherpunk values which built the network.


But enough beating around the bush. The only reason this talk has become famous is Vitaliks singing session in the middle of it. Here they are together with the original songs. Especially the second song took my some time to find a source.

Laputa ending song: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gdpEnkcT7Io>
Vitaliks interpretation: <https://youtu.be/JpOSqLjYb0o?feature=shared&t=678>

Kryp Tina song: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WdrSP0V-KLg>
Vitaliks rendition: <https://youtu.be/JpOSqLjYb0o?feature=shared&t=829>

I am happy that Vitalik did not become a singer, but I am even more happy he is as quirky as he is.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/PhiMarHal is humbly begging for scraps of your attention</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fv071m/comment/lq69vwf/)

I'm confident the Scroll airdrop snapshot was already taken.

Why, you ask? Simple: for the past few months, I've been toying with a small dapp idea. A collaborative story where everyone writes together and mints NFTs by writing. I'm enthralled by the concept, and I figure I could lure some of you fine gentlemen into my lair by alluding, not so subtly, that any sort of activity on Scroll could help qualify for a big fat airdrop.

But then, something terrible happened. You see, I started using AI. Claude Sonnet 3.5 specifically. 

As someone who's not a coder, the whole process of building anything with code usually goes like: 

- have a good time writing actual code for a couple hours

- then hit a roadblock on something arcane related to programming

- then be forced into the most tedious websearch adventure for a solution to this problem

And those roadblocks happen dozens of times.

None of that anymore. Claude is always there to give an answer, always available to suggest something. We talk it out and eventually figure out the thing. The good lad never gets tired of my walls of text.

This is the terrible part. I started Having Fun.

And when you enjoy the process, you start spending more time refining everything to your liking.

It went on and on and what do you know, now we're in October. Rumors abound TGE is soon. Scroll 1 year anniversary is coming up in mid October. Hints everywhere the eye can see.

Instead of coming to you all with a cheeky smile and an airdrop nudge nudge wink wink, I am here hat in hand, on my knees, humbly begging for scraps of your attention.

Please, kind sir, may you take a look at my dapp?

It's a good dapp. I promise. Maybe.

I wrote some about what it actually is here: [Blog Link](https://mirror.xyz/loiyaa.eth/SSbs_q0TyPyLLXJszUkIUtgP7OzIYQxKMNL30ak43C8)

[Frontend Link](https://contributors.loiyaa.com/)

In all seriousness, I find it incredible just how far you can get with AI. I didn't write any code here. All it takes is a bit of persistence. We're moving fast into a world where everyone can make their own toys exactly to their liking by chatting up a virtual assistant. If you have ideas you want to see happen and time to spend, there's very little to stop you.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog shares his take on Lido's Community Staking Module</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fvrhxr/daily_general_discussion_october_4_2024/lq9wpa6/)

Financially for node operators it is a great product. Lido tries everything to get people on board. If you are on their early adoption whitelist they even allow for a lower bond for the first share, increasing the rewards even further. As far as I see pretty much anyone running a node anywhere is on the list (20k-30k) addresses. They also are present pretty much everywhere to advertise the start of the CSM. As far as I see they limit the shares to 12 for each node operator, which means even under the most optimistic assumptions the amount of ETH the solo node operators will handle will be at most be in the single digit percentage of the whole validators Lido has. It is a good development, but will not change the validator distribution setup within Lido to any meaningful degree.

On a more personal opinion I try to stay as far away as possible from Lido as they have a massive war chest and a lot of influential people on their pay roll. They can undercut the competition for very long to make sure none other staking solution survives. Their initial plan of cross-subsidicing the CSM with revenue from their more centralized staking business was a pretty direct attack on the current solo staker landscape. Not sure of they changed this though. Their history of gaslighting the solo staker community and claiming them to be 'irrational actors' massively soured my opinion. They way they plan to centralize the Ethereum staking under their umbrella and even calling it decentralized, does not help in making me more sympathetic towards them. In the long run I think they are a massive problem for the Ethereum network and I really hope we can keep them from taking over the staking layer.

The sad reality is that there is very little decentralized competition. Rocketpool still is the only properly decentralized solution. They are much smaller, they are in the middle of a year long change in how much bond their stakers need. In a few weeks we might see the first rocketpool minipool without the need to stake RPL. They just have the first one running on testnet (as of 3 hours ago). I have great hopes that this will be competitive in the long run, but as always with rocketpool it will take some time. An interesting project is Nodeset which is planned to launch soon will be interesting to watch, it is built atop of rocketpool and adds a very soft kyc layer for node operators. Bonds are lower than with rocketpool and no RPL is needed. Another project called Diva which was all the rage last summer (2023) still does not have a fully functioning prototype. Their testnet stopped accepting new node operators after they found some bugs. We will see what will come out of it in months to come. Puffer might be interesting as well, but to be honest I have no idea about the details.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Gumpa-Bucky reflects in light of their crypto anniversary month</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fwivoc/daily_general_discussion_october_5_2024/lqh06d2/)

October is my crypto anniversary month, I thought I would mark it by sharing my ETH journey story with fellow ethfinanciers. At least it is something to read in the low comment weekend.

In October 2013, I bought my first Bitcoin, on the advice of my millennial son, who explained blockchain basics and suggested that BTC's value--about $170 at the time--could go up. After a mini- DCA spree for a year, I got busy with work and stopped paying attention until October 2016 when I read somewhere about ethereum and smart contracts. I thought that was pretty cool. I went on to get my first ETH in 2016, first ledger in 2017, and as prices rose, I cashed out my original fiat investment.

Unfortunately in 2017-2018 a slower work period gave me too much free time so I started trading a bunch with the remaining house money. For a while I got into Vechain and LINK, though fortunately I kept a majority of my portfolio in ETH and BTC. After painful IRS interactions and a desire for simplicity, I decided to abandon all frills and reduced down to just BTC and ETH by 2021.

I went on to launch my first RP minipool (through Allnodes) in late 2021 but sold my RPL and further simplified to vanilla staking last year. I periodically toy with the idea of home staking (and even got an early Proteus to do so), but my frequent travels and lack of confidence have kept me from it so far.

I am in the minority of ethfinanciers who have already achieved retirement the old-fashioned way. My stage in life gives me a different perspective on holding and exiting, and my ETH goal is not to get life-changing money, but rather to be a supporter of this important new technology, to keep my brain active by following its evolution, to use staking income to upgrade my retirement life, and to safely pass a valuable asset on to my grandkids as a hedge against the uncertain world they are growing into.

I discovered r/ethfinance in late 2021 and have truly enjoyed learning from all of you. I am pretty sure I have read and upvoted >95% of the dailies. I mostly lurk but I am proud of my EVM lion and few doots (though no one IRL knows about any of that!). I greatly appreciate the effective moderation and community spirit of volunteerism. For me, this sub also is where I got introduced to the linguistics of social media. So I thank all of you for what you have contributed to my education! I was really hoping to go to Hodlercon this year but I have a hard schedule conflict, so maybe 2026...

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/EggIll7227 discusses Ethereum's normie narratives</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fx9170/daily_general_discussion_october_6_2024/lqn4a7r/)

My normie-friendly TikTok influencer account is getting lots of traction recently, as my subscribers count breached 2200 (I am catering to 8 millions French Canadians, so it's a decent following in my niche market). It's an education, not monetized, no-shilling-allowed account.

I have learned a few lessons since January, when I launched it.

First : simplicity is king. If your narrative can't be explained in a single, easy to understand sentence, it won't catch up. This is why I am skeptical of things like "triple points asset", "programmable money" and "digital bond". 

What is sticking is : "Ethereum is a decentralized AppStore that anybody can use or deploy on, and you need to pay in ether to use it."

Maybe it's not technicaly accurate, but this is what people understand. 

Second : most people see crypto as a way to get rich, not as a technology. This explains the bottoming ratio : in their eyes, Ethereum is the second cryptocurrency. People like to bet on champions, not on runner-ups. The Flippening is a nice meme, and I would love to see it happen, but realisticaly, it won't ever happen.

Third : a lot of people are still interested in this space. It will take time, probably a few years, but we will have another mania phase.

That being said, I am trying very hard to teach people about the non-speculative parts of crypto, namely decentralized social media and digital artworks. They don't care, but I am still trying.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 summarises the current homestaker debate and u/supephiz weighs in on the situation</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fxzz7t/daily_general_discussion_october_7_2024/lqqwrja/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

There's been some discussion about the hardware and network requirements for Ethereum validators. Obviously maximum decentralization is the goal, but at the same time Ethereum can't scale if we want to let everyone with a Raspberry Pi and a 1Mbps internet connection (*exaggerating here*) participate. I believe the discussion was initially triggered by someone who missed their block proposal, [likely due to not having enough upload bandwidth](https://hackmd.io/@dsjdqQDBRp66btjRzfxjbw/r1OuFG7AA).

The issue is, noone has defined where *the line* is - what are the minimum requirements that still allow you to fully participate in validation of the chain as well as proposing blocks, and what should they be into the future.

The current outcomes of this discussion:

- [a survey in r/ethstaker](https://reddit.com/r/ethstaker/comments/1fqxjdv/important_home_staker_bandwidth_survey/) among home stakers to get a better picture of what hardware and network current stakers have available to them.

- Toni from the EF [put together some numbers on local block building and the effects that blobs have had on it](https://ethresear.ch/t/on-solo-staking-local-block-building-and-blobs/20540).

- <https://github.com/ethereum/execution-apis/pull/559> - a new API endpoint `engine_getBlobsV1` that will help local block building since the proposer won't necessarily have to publish the blobs too. Attesters to the block can simply get the blobs from their own EL client's blob pool if the proposer doesn't manage to publish them quickly enough.

All of this discussion is pretty relevant right now since there's been talks of [increasing the blob count in the upcoming Pectra fork(s)](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/1153#issuecomment-2377002932). It's important to note this would be in combination with EIP-7623 which greatly decreases the worst-case size of a block.

I personally feel that a slight increase (as suggested in the linked comment) would be okay provided the teams also manage to ship the new `engine_getBlobsV1` API endpoint. Good news is, [Reth and Besu already support it](https://x.com/gakonst/status/1842316452696859073), [Geth has a PR open](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/pull/30537) and [Nethermind has a PR merged](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/pull/7322) ~~and I believe it should not be hard for other EL clients to add~~.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fxzz7t/daily_general_discussion_october_7_2024/lqrhf3m/)

[u/supephiz](https://reddit.com/u/supephiz):

If this were just about building the robust and decentralized smart contract platform we'd be sailing, but the inclusion of a financial reward means that other projects want a piece of the pie. Other projects aren't able to match Ethereum on technical grounds, so they chip away at our social infrastructure, planting seeds of doubt and conflict with the knowledge that a small percent of Ethereum participants will shed away looking for other projects that might be a "more lucrative investment". 

I think the best route here is for us to continue decentralizing by onboarding people who are looking for investments in smart contract platforms, I imagine that over time it'll continue to look like "if you can't beat them, join them" with Ethereum being the victor. 

People who have been around a long time might realize that, while the attacks are changing in nature, they seem to be less of an existential threat and more of an annoyance every day.

If I were to characterize these threats, I'd say that threat actors used to attack head on, but now they feel like they're working for clout inside the ecosystem and likely even working within Ethereum while getting funded by adversarial enterprise.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/CaptainLoud is looking for some app feedback</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fxzz7t/daily_general_discussion_october_7_2024/lqs92yt/)

**Looking for feedback**

Since my app [Boasty](https://boasty.app) didn't see any usage or traction, I decided to stop building features and leave it as is. It remains fully functional and you can still schedule posts on Ethereum. It was a great learning experience.

I thought about the "Pay 1 USDC to do X" hook and came up with a game concept: A prize pool (smart contract) is seeded every day with say 10 or 100 USDC, you play a browser 2D shooter game, and you can submit your high score for a chance to win the whole thing. High scores would be hidden until reveal, then whoever has the highest score gets the payout automatically via smart contract.

So i built [etherglide.net](https://etherglide.net), a PoC of a futuristic 2D space shooter with cyberpunk styling and lore. Game features:

* Use WASD to move Zephyr to avoid obstacles and collect powerups
* Left mouse click to shoot projectiles and destroy enemy crafts for extra points
* Collect ETH to recharge your ammo 
* Collect a speed powerup for a 10 second speed boost 
* The game increases difficulty by increasing the maximum speed and number of obstacles
* Connect your wallet and sign a message to submit a high score to the leaderboard
* Game music and cool pew pew pew sounds!

I am looking for feedback for the concept and game itself. Currently working on the smart contract and more game features (boss fights and gravity mechanics), but wanted to test the waters before sinking too much time into it. Please try it and let me know what you think!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HSuke educates us on full-reserve banking</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fys4ny/daily_general_discussion_october_8_2024/lqydx7x/)

####**Why not Full Reserve Banking?**

I was thinking about what would happen if countries switched over to full reserve banking. What would the effects be?

Currently, there isn't a single country that does full-reserve banking. It would greatly contract the economy, and most global companies, VC funding, and innovation would move elsewhere where they can get cheaper loans. It's self-sacrificing idea.

Historically, every country has been on a fractional reserve system since banks and loans existed. Banks can lend out a portion of their customer's deposits to use towards other people's loans. If too many loans defaulted or there were a bank run, the bank would close. Centralized reserves were then invented to handle mass bank runs during times of panic. And overall, strong central banks, when combined with the power to expand money supply, have been extremely successful in preventing mass bank runs. Keep in mind that strong central banks did not exist in the US before the 1940s.

While depressions were extremely common and occurred about every 30 years post-feudalism and before central banks could expand money supply, there hasn't been one since central banks gained that power after the 1930s.

The Silver Standard, Gold Standard, Brent-Wood system, and Fiat systems all used fractional reserve banking. Of those systems, only fiat system could handle nation-wide full reserve banking. The other systems would all fail if the economy grew or contracted because it would not be possible to expand and contract money supply under both a full reserve system and a commodity standard.

**What would happen to banks under full reserve?**

* Banks would stop loaning because they can no longer use customer deposits like checkings/savings/CDs for loans
* Banks would would charge small fees for checkings/savings accounts.
* Many bank locations would close down, and banks would go online
* The central bank reserve would no longer be needed and can safely close. Or maybe it's still needed to bail out the separate loan industry ...

**Where would loans go?**

* Loans would simply move from banks to peer-to-peer lending industries like Prosper and Funding Circle
* Loan intererest rates would shoot up another 5-10%, and mortgages would become even less affordable
* Homes would be less of an investment and more of an ongoing cost (like they are in Japan)
* There would be a lot more buying expensive things without loans
* Overall, the economy would shrink maybe 50-90%, and domestic investments in general would plummet
* Many companies would move abroad to other countries where they can get cheap loans
* VC and innovation would move abroad to other countries.
* Many loans would move abroad to other countries that are still under partial-reserve systems
* Any country that goes full reserve would fall behind other countries.

**What happens during a financial crisis when people aren't able to pay back loans?**

* Banks would be perfectly fine since they're no longer involved
* The loan industry would collapse or fall back to their insurers. Many lenders would default.
* The government may decide to create a central reserve to insure loan agencies
* The government may bail out loan agencies and insurers that are too big to fail. Or maybe they won't and just be ok with letting a section of the economy collapse.
* Anyone who doesn't lend or get loans would be mostly fine and unaffected.
* The financial crisis would be smaller than under partial-reserve

Overall, switching from partial-reserve to full-reserve just migrates failures from banks to the loan industry and causes interest rates to shoot up because customer deposits can't be used. It doesn't prevent systemic failures, but it does make them much smaller. The overall economy will also be much smaller.

Consider China's Evergrande and housing collapse, which is a lot closer to a full-reserve collapse since many Chinese homeowners buy houses in cash. China just let those companies fail and those homeowners lose their deposits. The economy contracted greatly. Some municipals were to close to unrest and insurrection, but because China has a strong government, local governments were able to suppress protests. Overall, the damage was limited.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard is following the white rabbit and you can too</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fzjust/comment/lr60i0j/)

The next section of my [Rabbit Hole Explorer's Guide](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fjkzpm/daily_general_discussion_september_18_2024/lnt7p9q/) is all about crypto etiquette.

**Your Crypto is Private**

If you go to stock trading forums you'll frequently find people posting pictures of their brokerage account positions showing they either made or lost incredible amounts of money. Reputable crypto forums prohibit that for your safety. The blockchain is public unencrypted information. When you post precise positions and trade times you reveal your address to anyone looking. If I know your address I know not only your current net worth but everything you do in the future. You probably aren't intending to forfeit your financial privacy forever; it makes you a target. It enables more credible spear-phishing and tells the attacker whether you have enough funds to be worth their time. Generally speaking, just keep your crypto dealings private or at least relatively anonymous, especially online.

This is true among friends and family for different reasons. There will come a point in your learning where you discover something exciting in this rabbit hole, the whole thing clicks for you, and you become enthusiastic and want to share this with everyone around you. People around you then think you've joined a cult. It's more than a stereotype; I've seen it many times. Even outside of crypto it's usually recommended to avoid mixing business and pleasure. If someone listens to you and makes money they are rarely going to be grateful to you personally. If they listen and lose money you can easily damage relationships. So don't go shilling your favorite memecoin at your next holiday party with friends and family. As an investment of your energy it just doesn't provide a very good risk adjusted return.

In general, while I encourage everyone to talk about what blockchains can do and the benefits they bring, don't talk your bags.  It's one thing to have an conversation about money being a social construct or the outrageous quicks of the banking system. It's quite another to go around making grandiose claims you don't have the means to back up in the moment while telling everyone to buy whatever coin/token you're currently obsessed with. Don't be that annoying guy. If you absolutely can't resist or are obligated to answer because someone directly asks you I recommend you approach the topic like [this guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3-oz-XUF1EM&ab_channel=Bankless). Your first objective is to dispel misconceptions and ask confounding questions that lead to thought experiments that the person might actually benefit from. [Be Socratic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Socratic_method). In my experience, the moment a listener perceives even an inkling of self-interest in the topic you will just be another scammer to them. Don't talk your bags, your *crypto is private*.

**Real Help Will Be Public**

Given how overwhelmed you might feel at times when exploring something new it's natural that you want to reach out and ask for help. If you do this in web3 on Discord, Twitter, or Reddit in most places the people who will respond to you, especially in DMs, are scammers. Your transaction failed trying to claim funds on whatever.finance? The scammers just see [this guy](https://pixar.fandom.com/wiki/Russell?file=Russell1.png). They can just *smell* the fresh blood. It's literally their job hunt people like you. *Legit people never DM you first*. They'd rather answer your question in public so the response is indexed for the next people who search.

If a DM is necessary they will tell you to DM them. Scammers can easily impersonate legit people on social media. If you're on Discord, they can DM you despite not even being on the server you're asking for help from and therefore they are out of reach of the moderators of that protocol. They can use the same image and public alias as the legit person you are talking to. If you're on Twitter they can use a subtly different name but have the same profile picture and pay $10 to have a blue checkmark next to their name. You'll sometimes get two or three different accounts messaging you telling you similar things to make the answer look more credible. The differences are easy to miss, you are frustrated even before they reach you and are willing to try something new to fix the problem, and they'll be readily available and eager to "help" you.

Nothing good will come from their help. They'll try to send you to their help server to file a ticket. They'll try to get you to install some custom wallet into your browser. They'll send you to a website that asks for your private key. They'll tell you there's some manual workaround they will do for you if you just send your ERC-20 to their treasury address. These are all obvious red flags but before you even get there the first red flag is you are using DMs at all. Whenever someone reaches out to you first with any type of directions, it's a red flag. *Real help will be public*.

**Be Careful Who You Trust**

Learning in this ecosystem can be frustrating at times. Everywhere you go everyone seems to know more than you about everything from macro economics, to how to read a chart and tell the future, an entire sailors dictionary of jargon from tradfi, to technical specifications of networks that you need a computer science degree to understand. It can all feel frustratingly out of reach but I'll let you in on a secret: most people worth listening to *are capable* of explaining things in simple enough terms that you can understand it. If you are on their platform and they have all the space and time they need to explain something well yet they aren't making the effort to explain it so you can understand it it could be their goal isn't to be understood by you but rather to sound credible and confident so that you buy whatever they are selling. If you stumble into a conversation between two names that have a lot of followers and they are talking way above your head, you are not yet at a place where it's worth reading whatever that is. If you're outmatched to the degree that you aren't prepared to sus out bullshit you shouldn't be considering buying whatever anyone there is selling.

Generally speaking, your favorite crypto influencer is using you as exit liquidity. If you aren't paying for a product, *you are the product*. If you can't figure out how they are monetizing your attention, you can still be certain they are. They are monetizing your attention in every way they can. They are getting paid for ad space. They are executing trades before you can so you're always buying at a higher price and selling at a lower price than them if you follow their moves. They need engagement numbers to raise more money from VCs and they need to sustain their token price to keep attention on their project. For all of the above, they need to retain your attention and they will use every cognitive bias at their disposal to do so. People often mistake confidence for aptitude. The loudest voices are those with the strongest incentives not those with the truth. But I will tell you this lesson from cycles past: the most boisterous sounding voices in the crowd have a storied history of imploding a year after you'll first discover them. *Be careful who you trust*.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/breeezyyyy lays out the common framework</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g0bcb1/comment/lr9u3om/)

A common framework I like to use to think about my investments \[rightly, or wrongly, please feel free to critque\].

**Cash:** cash is cash. The dollar is continuously being weakened, but it's important to have cash as a buffer/layer of safety or to buy large dips. \[3-5% Yield\]

**Stocks**: The stock market has been absolutely ripping over the last decade. Important to DCA into stocks on a regular basis, but it's never going to give you insane upside unless you pick a winner like Nvidia or Tesla and average in over a long period. \[8-12% Yield\]

**Real Estate:** Very manual, illiquid, challenging, costly, & time consuming investment \[I have 9 rental properties\]. Very difficult to scale and each house project takes at least 3 months min. \[5-10% Yield annually\]

ETH: Extremely volatile, nascent technology that has the potential to be the internet of value. Has loads of headwinds \[regulatory, challengers, technological, financial\] against it. Also has some of the smartest developers in the world working on it,  and is at the bleeding edge of software. 

  
Asking this to you all seriously, but if you have your bases covered with Cash, Retirement or Stocks-401K/Roth/IRA, Brokerage etc.., Real Estate, **where else do you have the same amount of upside potential as ETH beyond an individual Tech stock like whatever the next Nvidia will be?**

I don't see anywhere else I can allocate my dollars that has the upside potential of ETH? Am I missing something?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dreth sounds the alarm to a big change in domain names</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1g0bcb1/comment/lrbt9qz/)

Relevant to lots of crypto (and tech) websites and generally for safety around them, given that this political event will probably force a change on a lot of domain names. In short, the `.io` TLD will disappear.

Relevant excerpt from [this article](https://every.to/p/the-disappearance-of-an-internet-domain) explaining it:

> Since 1968, the UK and U.S have operated a major military base on the Chagos Islands (officially known as the British Indian Ocean Territory) , but the neighboring nation of Mauritius has always disputed British sovereignty over them. The Mauritian government has long argued that the British illegally retained control when Mauritius gained independence. It has taken over 50 years, but that dispute has finally been resolved. In return for a 99-year lease for the military base, the islands will become part of Mauritius. 

> Once this treaty is signed, the British Indian Ocean Territory will cease to exist. Various international bodies will update their records. In particular, the International Standard for Organization (ISO) will remove country code “IO” from its specification. The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), which creates and delegates top-level domains, uses this specification to determine which top-level country domains should exist. Once IO is removed, the IANA will refuse to allow any new registrations with a .io domain. It will also automatically begin the process of retiring existing ones. (There is no official count of the number of extant .io domains.)

> Officially, .io—and countless websites—will disappear. At a time when domains can go for millions of dollars, it’s a shocking reminder that there are forces outside of the internet that still affect our digital lives.

However, note that some exceptions to the rules have been made for other commercially successful TLDs ([source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/.io)):

> With the United Kingdom giving up sovereignty of the British Indian Ocean Territory to Mauritius[17] (but maintaining the military base on Diego Garcia via an initial 99 year lease), it is possible under IANA rules, the .io domain will eventually have to be phased out within the following several years,[18][19] although historically, some exceptions been granted, as was the case for .su.

</details>
