---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-09-06
episode: 77
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/RgwohnXWt1
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-ErRxx8wlEw
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1fa76dn/comment/llr4mgm/)

[u/Equal-Jellyfish1](https://reddit.com/u/Equal-Jellyfish1)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2380.90

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.04217

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f8l3t3/comment/llj3q1u/)

*Go where you belong,*

*Knock your chest and sing along,*

*Apes together strong.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/NeedlerOP</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f4n4q0/daily_general_discussion_august_30_2024/lko8jdv/)

First they ignore you

Then they laugh at you

Then they fight you

Then you get an ETF

Then they ignore you again

Then they laugh at you again

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/CaptainLoud decided to build a cool little app</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f3uche/daily_general_discussion_august_29_2024/lkhqgln/)

**Introducing** [https://boasty.app/](https://boasty.app/) **- Schedule Your Ethereum Posts**

Dear ethfinance, special day for me today - after 7 years in the space, i get to show something small i built. Inspired by this u/benido2030 [post](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ez4fxr/daily_general_discussion_august_23_2024/ljigy38/) last Saturday, i spent the last 5 days building Boasty. I always wanted to try building an app on Ethereum, and this idea sounded simple enough so i gave it a go and now it's live.

**TLDR Pay 1 USD in stablecoin and schedule a post on Ethereum, you get a <https://boasty.app> permalink to reference and share which contains your published message and transactions associated.** See an example [here](https://www.boasty.app/QTq8MoMKLV)

The app is an MVP but everything works as far as i can tell. It is currently permissioned, meaning the messages are stored in a centralized database and no smart contracts yet, but as you can see on the [roadmap](https://www.boasty.app/roadmap), I intend to introduce message storing on IPFS, smart contract(s), sha256 hashed messages with auto or user reveal, supporting more wallets (currently only tested with Metamask), L2 networks and hopefully more.

Last but not least, I'd like to make the app free to post for my fellow solo stakers and the /r/ethfinance community (EVM holders for now?). Happy to hear any ideas on how to make this happen!

Feedback appreciated, feel free to say it like it is and try to break the app. I am not on crypto twitter or any of those, so if you like it, please share it! Thanks u/benido2030 for the idea!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth started a new EVM series</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f4n4q0/daily_general_discussion_august_30_2024/lkriq80/)

Started a new series. As always, [subscribe to EVMavericks' paragraph](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks/etheraider-evm1209-1) to get all new content immediately when it is out! I hope you enjoy!

-----

[**Get to know EVMavericks #1 - Etheraider aka EVM 1209**](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2F2dd0ec8275d3f5e849f45f7bb5262662.jpg&w=1200&q=75)

**Hi, what do you go by and what's your EVMavericks #?**

*Hey, this is [Etheraider](https://reddit.com/user/etheraider) and [I’m EVM 1209.](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2F00468a8cc121dbeffd734d3f50dadb56.png&w=1200&q=75)*

**Who or what introduced you to crypto?**

*My brother bought into ETH in 2015, held for 2 years, and sold right before the 2017 bull run. I didn’t know anything about crypto until I saw he missed out on life-changing gains, so I decided to learn from his mistake!*

**How and when did you find your way into EVMs?**

*Well, actually, I was there at the very beginning and helped bring EVMavericks to the blockchain!*

**So it's been a couple of years since the beginning; what made you stay?**

*I think we're one of the best communities of OGs on Ethereum—a lot of good people around with all sorts of talent, perspective, and experience in the space. It’s a good place to be.*

**What's your best EVMavericks memory?**

*There are a lot of good ones. But I’d say that first EVM podcast we launched, where many of us (who knew each other only on Reddit for years) “talked” together for the first time. It was awesome.*

**What are you most excited about EVMs looking forward?**

*In the short term, I’m looking forward to us getting into the Octant funding round. In the long term, I’m excited to see future endeavors our community members will pursue!*

**What is your favorite hobby or way to spend time outside of crypto?**

*Well, this past year, I got really into going to the gym and living a healthier lifestyle. Decided to place an emphasis on taking care of my mind, body, and soul! As far as hobbies go, I’m a big fan of disc golf, tabletop board games, and ping pong!*

**What one piece of advice would you give to someone who's just getting into crypto?**

*Learn about why crypto exists, how powerful its impact can be, and how it can dramatically change all our lives for the better.*

**Any piece of alpha that you can share with us? It can be anything, not just crypto-related.**

*When you’re on your deathbed, are you gonna care about how much money you’ve made or how nice your house/cars/etc. are? No. The only thing you’ll care about is the people you love and the impact you’ve had on them. Don’t wait until then to go all in on the people you love.*

**Lastly, is there anything else you wanna share? Maybe a project you are working on? Latest accomplishments? Whatever you want! The stage is yours Etheraider!**

*In a time such as this, where the world is so crazy, divided, and full of darkness, my favorite verse to quote is this:*
*“The light has entered the world, and the darkness has NOT overcome it.”*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/JebediahKholin highlights 3 issues for ETH this year</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f4n4q0/daily_general_discussion_august_30_2024/lkp52q3/)

It seems like ETH has 3 big problems this year.
  
1) Airdrop flop - the hype for eigenlayer and others was completely unreal, while the airdrops themselves were a terrible combination of stingy and overpriced. If a token launches at its best possible market cap, there's nowhere to go but down, especially if there are gigantic unlocks coming. Tokens were a lot more interesting when you had a real chance at making a killing at buying something that seemed like it had real fundamentals or promise. If some hyper-complicated protocol launches at an insane valuation, there are going to be very few buyers - it's too complicated for non-crypto natives, the upside is already priced in, and people are going to want to unload the tokens. So every new token has pretty much gotten crushed. tough way to build market hype.
  
2) ETF Flop - The BTC ETF set up some incredible expectations, but ETH matching it was always going to be an issue. BTC got huge early inflows from crypto-natives wanting to offload some of their unchain coins so they don't have to worry about custody. It makes a lot of sense from a diversification perspective, and there's basically nothing to do with unchain bitcoin, anyway. Institutions/financial advisors are much more slow moving, but the retail buyers disguised this. This was huge for bitcoins narrative and expanded its presence among the broader world. ETH, by contrast, will only be bought in the ETF by those who really can't interact with onchain infrastructure - basically, financial advisors, institutions, 401ks, which all take a long time to spin up. Holding ETH onchain is valuable, so there's a real cost to using the ETF instead. This makes sense to us, but makes ETH look bad to the tradfi world/retail, furthering the narrative that there's bitcoin as the main crypto, and then there's everything else. While this is disputed by the fundamentals, the fundamentals are complicated. Narrative is tough.
  
3) Solana meme coins - memecoins on Solana have been a retail incinerator. They look appealing - zero transaction fees that let you avoid extractive vc coins - but the reality is that Solana's centralized validator, sequencer, and MEV setup allows for colossal extraction, while the meme coins themselves allow for easily faked volume metrics and huge insider dumping. It's hard to imagine a worse market to participate in. However, the notable crypto influencers are some of the only people making money off this, so they pound the table about how great Solana is. VCs are (and have always been) huge owners of Solana, so they. ALSO pound the table on how great sol is/how bad etc is. So Solana is stealing retail mindshare while impoverishing everyone who uses the chain. It's a bad outcome.

So what does ETH need to re-attract retail? Yield farming and gambling. Onchain options that are actually liquid. New tokens launching quickly (as a quasi ico while avoiding being direct icos) at low valuations so that some momentum can build. Tokens that actually result in cash flow when staked, so that people have an actual reason to buy/speculate on them. 

What ETH REALLY needs is to capture mindshare from bitcoin as a pristine non-sovereign store of value. ETH should be fighting with bitcoin and gold, not with Solana. Solana as a network may be great (I don't think it is but ignore that for now) but SOL the token is complete garbage unless things change dramatically.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HSuke recaps Vitalik's impromptu AMA</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f5fiqc/daily_general_discussion_august_31_2024/lkus89q/)

**Vitalik Buterin started an unofficial AMA last weekend on Warpcast** after he posted about [stablecoin decentralization on X](https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/1827583576751181961)

TL;DR of the original X post:

* **DEX**: great
* **Decentralized Stablecoins**: great
* **Polymarket**: great
* **Semi-decentralized Stablecoin like USDC**: Not great, but they're a practical and convenient necessity. The issuer is centralized, but the rest of on-chain use is decentralized
* Anything that has **no sustainability** like "decentralized" liquidity farming or yield farming: Very bad. The key reason is lack of sustainability. These are just get-rich schemes.
* It's not enough to only have finance on blockchains. It needs more real applications outside of finance
* Useful related post: <https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2023/11/27/techno_optimism.html>

---------------------------

These are the highlights from the Warpcast AMA response to that X post:

I've paraphrased the important parts of some of the longer questions and responses

* **Q**: Banana Milk or Chocolate Milk?
* **Vit**: Coconut milk is best, almond if I can't find coconut. I don't drink either independently, I put it into stuff, and that stuff in question ends up containing bananas and dark chocolate at roughly equal frequencies (usually both)

----

* **Q**: Do you have any heuristic for when compromises to decentralized principles go too far for stablecoins?
* **Vit**: My main worry is when they start entrenching network effects that become hard to undo. For example, if we start normalizing "sign in to this crypto social thing with Google", I think that's really bad, UNLESS it's done in an account-abstraction way where under the hood it's using zk-email and individual users can sign in with their ethereum account instead (and convert their account from one to the other). This way, it's not entrenching network effects of centralized web2 platforms, it's actually creating a bridge that lets users join the ecosystem with them, but then more easily migrate away from them.

----

* **Q**: Last TV series you watched? And if you liked it
* **Vit**: "Three Body Problem" was good
* **My opinion**: Hell yeah! Lots of Ethereum devs are "Dark Forest" fans due to its parallels with Ethereum MEV. Personally, I would recommend the Netflix adoption over the gigantic Chinese soap opera one, but neither series has reached the "Dark Forest" book yet.

----

* **Q**: Do you prefer °C to °F?
* **Vit**: I prefer C, but it's a weaker preference than all the other units. I would gladly take a trade of switching to F in exchange for never hearing about either feet/miles or ounces/pounds again.

----

* **Q**: How can we offer decentralized access to content? Http is not good enough any more. Ipfs feels unusable when it comes to normal users (without http gateways). Thoughts?
* **Vit**: We need browsers with IPFS integrated. Brave was supposed to be that, but unfortunately its IPFS gateway is quite slow so I never end up using it.
* **My opinion**: Agreed. I hate how difficult and slow it is to access IPFS gateways via browser extensions. IPFS is barely accessible unless you pay for premium gateway services.

----

* **Q**: [Pure decentralization is overrated] Farcaster, Base, and Telegram have a decentralized foundation, but were built by centralized teams.
* **Vit**: If the team behind Farcaster didn't build and market Warpcast, we wouldn't be here now. The use cases we want Ethereum to take on need the centralized approach to grow, but are placed on a decentralized foundation.
* **My opinion**: Agreed. Almost nothing we do in crypto is purely decentralized, and that would be an unrealistic expectation. We would never be able trust anything on-chain without prior off-chain trust for the teams that build those protocols. That is, unless user were a senior crypto developer with code-auditing expertise, which is ridiculous requirement.

----

* **Q**: Do you see usdc overtaking cashapp, apple pay and the likes as a generally acceptable form of payment
* **Vit**: I think we need to have easy to use ethereum-ecosystem-wide L2 payments first for that to happen.

----

**Source:** <https://warpcast.com/vitalik.eth/0xa3ad7913>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/iscaacsi motivates us to do stuff while we're feeling down</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f5fiqc/daily_general_discussion_august_31_2024/lkxs0gz/)

There has been a lot of posts of people feeling down recently. My honest response to this is stop looking at numbers and make something for the fun of it. If you can code write contracts that do something fun. If you can design then make mockups for weird fictional games. If you can write, publish an article about a future society where eth never existed. Start playing with apps. use things. break things. find the glitches, the edges. look in the mirror. uniswap backwards is pawsinu. What if the aave ghost is haunting the chain? How many times have people sent exactly 0.666 eth? What if we start calling them nifties again instead of nft? can we make bingo on base? 

there is so much for us to do. now it is september. summer lull is over. what is dead may never die 🐙

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade explain why blobs are down but transactions are still up</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f66n0f/daily_general_discussion_september_1_2024/lkz7awh/)

At the same time [transaction count is near ATH and active addresses maintained pretty well throughout the summer](https://www.growthepie.xyz/). The main reason why blobs seem to go down is thanks to optimizations by L2s. 

Showing the market that Ethereum has room to grow is absolutely needed, [if we were near saturation today we wouldn't have institutional rollups tomorrow](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1exh5g5/comment/lj70pey/).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptrd285 doesn't see much space for competition</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f66n0f/daily_general_discussion_september_1_2024/ll2qd0o/)

This is like a vampire attack we used to see during 2020 - 2021 defi time frame. I kind of like this thought process 

<https://x.com/CloutedMind/status/1830405365898580245>

i take the stance that blobs being 0 fee is bullish

it chokes competition

DA is ultimately a race to 0 anyway, might as well weaponize DA as loss leader to expand ethereum GDP

not only does it tell all these DA layoors to go fk themselves like TIA etc, it chokes any ethereum L2 competitors

no longer can an alt-L1 use "cheaper" as a selling point, only "faster" and "more decentralized" (than an L2)

i think soon we see L2s that be "faster" like megaETH and then we get 2/3

then as the roadmap for L2s go along and they become more permissionless without centralization risks we tick 3/3 (cheaper, faster and more decentralized with the inherent security of eth)

then where does an alt-l1 compete ? it doesnt.. its just L2 vs L2 and its all on ethereum

and ETH is their money

thats moat

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth brings us the EVMavericks weekly recap</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f6yl0k/daily_general_discussion_september_2_2024/ll7tsxu/)

[EVMavericks Weekly Recap (August 26-September 1)](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2Fd1b4cb4ec958e1126ae6ff35bf463c91.png&w=1200&q=75)

[Blog & Newsletter on Paragraph](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks)

Catch up on a week's worth of, mostly, Discord content: get some inside scoop and the feel of our vibes. For all the details, visit directly our Discord.

1. We voted for Doots Podcast and Aestus MEV Relay in the Octant's snapshot and both projects made it to the upcoming Epoch 5 allocation window!

2. [JT hosts Weekly Doots Livestream #76](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iVdRYKmR-iQ&t)

3. 696 hosts a new series: get to know EVMavericks. [First episode with Etheraider is out now.](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks/etheraider-evm1209-1)

4. GreenGeorge starts a thread asking lions about one project that really excites them.

5. interweaver shares that Starknet has undergone a massive upgrade, now introducing 2-second transactions and it's making a big difference for projects like Influence. 

6. [cybersea published a website about their artistic journey](https://www.cybersea.art/)

7. Degen chat has a little bit of everything this week. Some base mints, some random stats, some talk about Maker, some memes ofc. 

8. Memecoins have slowed down, but people still share some useful tools and degen TG groups. Generally, there's a lot of chatter about coins, the market, and vibes. Discussions include safer memes and strategies for longer meme team positions. The top play of the week features Etheraider longing ETH, with several other lions following suit

Lastly, **your weekly security reminder**: here’s a [few guides](https://imgur.com/a/wallet-security-guides-DSvQrXs)!

* EVMavericks discord has a security channel. You can literally mute everything else but that channel and only get notifications from there.

* Reminder for all the folks: we have a daily-discussion channel in the discord that's open to public and there's a decent amount of activity there!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/wolfparking reminds us of the upcoming Ethereum Foundation AMA</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f7rrbo/daily_general_discussion_september_3_2024/llcn0b7/)

Ethereumn Foundation is doing an AMA on 9/5, get your Q's ready and post them here:

<https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1f81ntr/ama_we_are_ef_research_pt_12_05_september_2024>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Kallukoras dodged a bullet and starts a conversation about risk</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f8l3t3/daily_general_discussion_september_4_2024/llgh79n/)

Yesterday night I was devastated, I have a big part of my funds in Penpie a yield aggregator for pendle and it was exploited yesterday evening. 

I saw an an alert on twitter and was hoping I would be not affected. But the asset rsweth that was my main holding in one of their LPs was part of it. I had the worst night. 

I found out today that only one of the two rsweth pools was exploited, the bigger one with higher tvl and apy, the smaller one that also gets swell L2 points(the reason I was in it) but less yield  was not drained and I was spared by pure luck, I guess the attacker focussed on the higher TVL Pools. I should be okay when withdrawals open again. I can still be part of ethfinance and all the crazy ups and downs.

I don’t want to experience that again, is there a safe way to get some yield at least? Or should I just stick by pure ETH on a ledger secured cold wallet? Or maybe rETH? 

Losing your funds like this would be the worst, it is worse then (controlled)leverage trading and shitcoin trading because everything could be gone without an error of your own , besides trusting a protocol you should not have trusted.

One small advantage I gained of that experience is I really don’t worry about the short term price action, I know we will be rewarded if we are patient and  ETH will come back and we will reach new ATHs at some point.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/defewit also discusses risk taken on for a yield, but this time compares centralised vs decentralised yield</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f8l3t3/daily_general_discussion_september_4_2024/llgvbe0/)

Posting as a top level comment a reply I was drafting to a deleted comment regarding onchain vs. tradfi "yield farming".

No doubt a large portion of "yield farming" is circular nonsense. BUT, even in the world of circular nonsense, *the onchain version is transparent with respect to its risk profile* and that is a consequential distinction vs. things like FTX/Celcius.

As an example, if Bernie Madoff launched a classic shitcoin yield farm with copies of battletested smart contracts, participants can trust the contracts without having to trust the person.

On the other hand, if the Pope himself started a centralized "yield farm" where I have to send him money via Western Union, the risk profile is now comparatively opaque and a million different risks must be weighed, no offense to His Holiness.

---

Ponzinomics aside, it's worth highlighting that more sustainable sources of yield *do* exist on Ethereum, think of AMM liquidity providing for example. It's making money from market making, totally normal financial service, but onchain and therefore transparent/permissionless/non-custodial/always online :)

Of course, the question of which tokens are being traded and how many have sustainable value is important for the long term viability of the ecosystem. It's a complicated question. The Ethereum economy has a lot of bullshit (just like the "regular" economy), but I think it has already "made it", there's already real activity in payments, savings, tokenization of treasuries/corporate debt, collectibles, etc.

</details>
