---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-02-09
episode: 55
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/UblHwHeMSi
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Pp16s5sRm4
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/167971
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1amhanj/comment/kplmhkm/)

[u/hehechibby](https://reddit.com/u/hehechibby)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2450.76

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> 0.053

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1alov71/comment/kpjc4xp/)

*The next fork in March,*

*Continously overarch,*

*Leave the rest to parch.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/doomfuzzslayer</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1agwsik/comment/kol7gzg/)

I got your points. Meet me on the corner of West 32nd and Buterin at 10 tonight. Dress like you’re leaving the bar early heading home to a WoW raid. Act casual - like you know me. Talk in a Lithuanian accent - my devs don’t like Americans. Bring your seed phrase and pass it when we shake. If you hear somebody with a Swiss accent just keep moving and don’t make eye contact. Our danger word is Cardano. You hear that word. Get the hell out of there. if this works your points will show up within 48 hours. These are loyalty points - for fun. Like maybe we’ll let you on an AMA with the devs some day. We’re NOT doing a token - hear me? Don’t even mention a token. If you do…let’s just say not all airdrops end well if you catch my drift

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheHansGruber is looking into cool new staking hardware</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ag42lq/daily_general_discussion_february_1_2024/kofe3ed/)

Spent some time at the rack last night. Updating the staking machines, swapping some patch cables, etc. I've got a new (to me) managed POE+ switch I'm pretty excited about. Gonna learn how to do vlan stuff for better security, and so I can install some POE cameras. Gotta rent a trenching machine and bury some cable too...not really excited about that part.

In going down the POE rabbit hole I came across a couple of interesting POE devices...including a POE NUC...which is *awesome*. It's priced like enterprise grade hardware...because it is. But a fanless, POE NUC that has the processing power to stake, yet is power efficient enough to be able to operate over POE is the *dream*. I already have the machine I'll be using as a nodeset operator setup, but I am considering throwing my hat into operation solo staker with etherfi too. If I could just hit one of these lottery blocks people keep talking about I would consider grabbing one of these POE NUCs. 

While doing my normal monitoring I noticed that, on mainnet validators, the rewards per epoch have begun to consistently drop below 10,000 gwei...and I wonder if we will ever see 5 figure rewards epochs again. Holesky validators never saw 10xxx gwei rewards...it launched with *well* over a million validators...I think we have closer to 1.5 million validating currently. These lil guys are receiving 7xxx gwei per epoch. Will we see 1.5 million active validators on mainnet? I'm guessing that might be close to the upper limit of what people will accept as a return on their investment. Depending on what restaking does to overall APR, of course. I don't have enough info to begin to speculate on that.

The dencun upgrade went boringly (good!) on sepolia, and after updating the holesky machine the consensus client log reads "INFO Ready for Deneb". Me too, computer. Me too. Mainnet soon after.

(in the voice of the thing): IT'S BLOBBERIN' TIME

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 gives us a comprehensive rundown on restaking</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1agwsik/daily_general_discussion_february_2_2024/kokjg1b/)

**What is restaking?** 

I will try to explain using EigenLayer as an example, following up on u/stablecoins post, but also because I have seen a lot of comments/ questions and think the concept isn't really clear. Please keep in mind that I am also writing this to structure my thoughts, but am not an expert at all, so things here might be wrong. If you spot mistakes, please correct them! 

*What is the general idea of restaking?*

Restaking means that we use capital that is staked to secure Ethereum - both staked ETH in validators but also via LSTs - and *also* use it to secure something else (and something else). 

*What kind of things can be secured by restaking?*

Basically anything. It could be an oracle. A data availability solution. An L2/ appchain. Anything that needs security.  

*Why is this needed?* 

Bootstrapping security for a new protocol is hard, especially if you want the validator set to be decentralized. Eigenlayer wants to be "a marketplace for trust". On this marketplace protocols that need trust/ security can tap into the already existing staked capital that Ethereum offers and build on that. Eigenlayer's thesis is that this is way easier than building it on your own. Their argument also builds on web2: Why have your own servers/ authentication etc. when you can just build in the cloud (e.g. AWS) or use Auth0 etc. = existing solutions that allow you to focus on your core product. 

Important: the existing solution is **not** Eigenlayer, but the security offered by stakers / holders of LSTs. 

*So how does this marketplace = Eigenlayer work?*

New protocols that want to build on Eigenlayer basically define what kind of trust/ security they need. This comes down to: Do they want only solo / home stakers to secure their network? Or are LSTs okay as well? 

At the same time they define what they are willing to offer for that service: How much are they willing to pay for securing their network? This could be in ETH, their native token etc. 

Also they of course define what the restakers have to do to secure the network. This means they provide a software/ client that the restakers have to run to secure the protocol. This is similar to what stakers run with execution and consensus clients to secure Ethereum. All these are called "AVSs". Actively validated services. Actively. Someone needs to do an action. 

Restakers start by either creating an Eigenpod or by depositing LSTs. An Eigenpod is a smart contract that a validator points to. So if a validator wants to exit the beaconchain, the ETH goes to the Eigenpod first. Similarly by depositing LSTs into Eigenlayer you deposit it into a smart contract. If the restaker wants to exit Eigenlayer there is a 7 day period before they can finally really withdraw their assets. 

This means that the assets don't leave the validator or the Eigenlayer smart contract. The secured protocol does **not** control the assets. 

After depositing restakers then opt-in if they are willing to secure the new protocol. They accept the offer made by the protocol, run the client and secure the network and are paid for this service according to the terms. 

There will also be operators that run the clients for you. So the restaker deposits, but delegates the actual management of the clients to a 3rd party. In that case you obviously *trust* someone else to do the job of securing correctly. Just like you do with LSTs or dPoS in other ecosystems. These operators of course ask for a fee to do that. 

If they behave according to the protocols rules (= they secure the protocol as intended) they are paid. If they misbehave (=they attack the protocol they are supposed to secure) they can be slashed just like someone could be slashed on the beaconchain. 

So how does the slashing work now? If they are caught, the protocol can ask Eigenlayer to slash the restaker. Eigenlayer right now has a "slashing committee" (my term, don't know if that's the real name of it). This committee basically checks if the restaker really misbehaved and if the slashing request is fair. So right now a protocol can't just slash you as a restaker, there is a (centralized!) security mechanism in place. 

If the restaker indeed attacked the network, they can't withdraw their LSTs and the LSTs are slashed. If they have a validator right now (!) no one can force them to exit the validator, so they can continue validating Ethereum. But when they want to exit, they will withdraw to the eigenpod and then the Eigenlayer protocol can slash the portion that is supposed to be slashed before the restaker can withdraw the rest. 

I don't know what happens to the assets that are being slashed. Maybe someone can add that? Are those burned? Going to the protocol that did the slashing? (That would be a strange incentive, but maybe that's the case)

*So where does the yield come from?*

First of all: There is **no** **yield** by just depositing. Only if you start securing one (or more) protocols, you will receive yield. This also means that right now there is only smart contract risk, no slashing etc. 

This yield is what these protocols offer to restakers for their service securing the new protocol. It can be paid in different tokens (or a mix). Could be new issuance. Could be from their treasury. Could be part of the fees they make with the product running on top. 

\---

But Benido, this all sounds great, I was told Eigenlayer is a huge risk, I don't get it, that is like risk free yield on top of risk free yield?

If you were around in spring of 2022, you might remember 3AC (Three Arrows Capital). They were long when the market was going down and at one point lending firms ask for more capital from 3AC. What did 3AC do? They used the same collateral over and over again. So what happened? All lending firms found out that the collateral they thought they could liquidate ("slash") was posted as collateral with other lenders as well. 3AC basically "restaked" the same collateral over and over again. No lending firm could liquidate the collateral and they all went tits up, the whole market crashed and it was a dark time... 

Of course this was off chain and Eigenlayer is onchain. With restaking we *know* how many times a certain asset is used to secure a certain protocol. But in the end something similar could happen. Deposit asset X once, attack several protocols and all protocols find out that they can't slash, because it was slashed already. 

On top we could see borrowing and lending protocols that allow LRTs (Liquid Restaking Tokens) to be deposited. So an attacker could even borrow against it to acquire more and attack cheaply... 

Using the same collateral several times is something that can be abused. Yes, it's onchain, so more transparent, but that doesn't make it bullet proof. We will witness attacks. This might lead to a cascade of liquidations and could take down so many protocols... and always remember: These assets started as stake to secure Ethereum, in a worst case scenario ETH's security might be diminished and attacks might be possible in ways we can't even imagine today. 

\---

I hope this explains restaking, but it might just be more confusing because I am missing things, the structure sucks etc., I don't know. If you have questions, post them!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/alexiskef introduces POAP Global, a cool new use case!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ahp76i/daily_general_discussion_february_3_2024/kosf4nd/)

Exciting news for the POAP enthusiasts!

[Poap Global](https://www.poap.global/), a project which is not officially related to POAP but rather a community project that utilizes the POAP tools, [just had](https://x.com/poapglobal/status/1753540429956403227?s=20) their official launch!

(Before publishing this comment, I asked Patricio Worthalter, the POAP founder, regarding the projects legitimacy, and he gave me a thumbs-up: ***"Yes! We support them.*** *The founder is a valued member of the official POAP curation body. This is a side gig")*

So, I went through their website and will try to explain what they are, and what it is that they are launching!

**What is Poap Global**? It's a "*a groundbreaking extension of the proof of attendance protocol concept operated by hodl labs. Imagine being part of a worldwide irl scavenger hunt. Only in this game, the treasures are unique digital collectibles at every landmark, and the playground is planet earth"*

**How do you participate?** *"You can either “****host****” a poap at a location of your choice or travel and* ***collect*** *other people’s poaps!"*

**Hosts**  
*You can 'host' a poap at a location of your choosing. Whether it's a favorite hiking trail, a landmark, or a hidden gem in your city, you can make it a part of this global game.*

So, how can you be a "Host"?  Well, there are 3 steps:

1. Submit location. You first choose a landmark, then design a POAP and submit it..  
2. Purchase a POAP NFC dispenser from their store. This is designed to be installed in proximity to your selected landmark. Visitors will be able to tap their phone against the nfc to instantly receive your special poap for that location.  
3. Program dispenser. When you first receive your dispenser you will be given a menu to select your approved poap and program it to the nfc. 

There is also a Global Leaderboard (in the works) to "*showcase top explorers and collectors",* and a *"dynamic globe that pinpoints where all the poaps are hidden".*

**Collectors**  
As a traveler and explorer, you can embark on a journey to collect poaps from various locations hosted by others. It’s a digital treasure hunt that takes you to new and exciting places.

The idea seems to be a perfect use-case on how to further utilize the POAP protocol. I jumped right in and bought a small number of the NFC dispensers.. I plan to "install" them at my home town center and at my local sports teams' soccer grounds..

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/\_WebOfTrust shares their experience as a newcomer to running a node</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aigxis/daily_general_discussion_february_4_2024/kowmneb/)

Folks here understand and are comfortable running an ethereum node but sharing my [learning and experience in running a non-staking node.](https://mirror.xyz/hailvitalik.eth/MLPQj8hGHbV2O1IpjdHMNnCEhW0naolv9Ns5opGhhXw) 

There is a learning curve and documentation needs some improvement, knowledge is silod within discord and in some case you are at the mercy of support from dev team. I learned a lot, definetly more comfortable sharing and talking about different clients, node and confident that I can help someone strugling with running a node. This was a test run on my Pi, waiting for proper hardware to test the script again. 

Without the support and motivation from the members of this wholesome community, I would not have considered heading in this direction. So, thank you, my dudes.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz gives some sound advice around taking worthwhile risks</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aigxis/daily_general_discussion_february_4_2024/koxv56l/)

Naw, this is pretty wise, even though it means you won't get an early participant advantage IF restaking is successful.

In 2009, people who took a risk on bitcoin did well.

In 2014, people who took a risk on Ether tokens did well.

In 2015, people who took a risk on The DAO we're bailed out in a one-time network fork.

In 2017, people who invested in ICOs like EOS lost lots of money on products that never materialized. 

There's really no way to say what will happen with restaking. I'm not convinced that there's a large enough market to support what's being built- maybe it will develop or maybe it'll just trend toward other solutions. All of this is a risk and it's wise to wait and see. As I've said publicly, I'm okay missing a huge win, and I'm going into all of these opportunities with a total of about 1% of my coins. I'm okay with any outcome.

I can sense that a lot of my investment-oriented friends think I'm just being negative, but I'm here for the long term success of Ethereum, not the flavor of the week. Just be who you are 😊

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade shares some great news on the client diversity front!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aj9j2n/daily_general_discussion_february_5_2024/kp08zmw/)

[Green day on the client diversity front](https://clientdiversity.org/)!

A month ago, Geth's market share was 84%, yesterday it was 78%, today it is 73%.

And also good news, the 5% difference between yesterday and today went to Nethermind, which makes the execution layer clients list as follows:

Geth - 73%

Besu - 14%

Nethermind - 12%

Erigon - 2%

I've not been able to identify the provider(s) that kept their words but I'm hoping one of our experts will soon be able to tell.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/austonst shares Vitalik's latest EthResearch post on the gas limit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aj9j2n/daily_general_discussion_february_5_2024/kp4lj3x/)

Toni and Vitalik put together an [ethresear.ch post on increasing the block gas limit](https://ethresear.ch/t/on-increasing-the-block-gas-limit/18567). This topic had moment in the spotlight a few weeks ago when Vitalik suggested we might be able to handle a block size increase and kicked off a flood of discussion. I haven't seen as much social media fuss recently, but with this post we're getting into the research of if to do it, and how to do so safely. Their strategy for increasing the gas limit? Decreasing it first! Kinda.

The trouble is that large blocks are possibly an issue today, even without an increase. There's a great figure in the post showing that reorged blocks tended to be almost two times larger (in bytes) than blocks that get finalized. Discussion about confounding factors aside, it does seem to suggest that a naive gas limit increase would hurt consensus health.

But block size comes in a distribution. The biggest blocks are a problem, but the median block size is 14.5x smaller than the maximum possible, very conservatively low. So what Toni and Vitalik are aiming to do is *decrease* the maximum block size and reduce variance so that we can safely *increase* the average block size.

With blobs coming up soon, the central idea is to increase the gas cost of calldata, the current way of getting data to the EVM. Increasing the gas cost of calldata means that blocks can hold less before they fill up, so we get a reduction in max block size. Then we could feel safe increasing the gas limit somewhat, presumably making space for more EVM execution, rather than data storage, to occur. And possibly make room for more blobs per slot.

The post has 5 different suggestions for how to do this. Personally, I like multi-dimensional EIP-1559 with a separate market for calldata, but the post argues that may be overly complex.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Set1Less warns us about a bad experience with a certain smart wallet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1aj9j2n/daily_general_discussion_february_5_2024/kp23kga/)

After many years in crypto. I seem to have run into the first instance of "losing" my wallet which is an account abstraction wallet from Particle Network(Ally.build created for the Linea tasks) created through signing in with email or twitter/discord, but Im unable to recover it for whatever reason. Apparently I may have used a different email or social account but I doubt that - I have tried logging back in with all my accounts and various combos, but it only loads a brand new wallet and not the ones which had the funds in it. The particle network discord is filled with people complaining about losing access to their wallet and the only reply they are getting is "read faq"

If you are a crypto native, using an AA wallet seems rather pointless - not only does it create a dependancy on a centralized wallet provider (another example is people losing access to Argent) but also bugs and or glitches can lead to you losing your wallet


Update: Particle wallet seems to be extremely poorly designed. There are multiple channels on their discord with people complaining about being unable to access their funds. Seems signing in with the original social media/email account sometimes results in a brand new wallet being created, and not the earlier wallet that was in use and funded by users. Whats worse is that the team is not willing to accept there is an issue, but instead seem to hold their ground that everything is working as expected -  despite hundreds of users complaining about being locked out of their wallets. The fact that so many people have the same issue in accessing their wallet at the very least requires the wallet team to look at the issue more closely, instead of firing off "Read FAQ" template messages...

Its shameful that Linea are using such operators for points scheme where scores of users are unable to even access the wallet they created earlier. 

At this point I can only warn others from using any wallet related to Particle network including Ally.Build

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth starts a discussion about securing your stack</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ak2vf5/daily_general_discussion_february_6_2024/kp9mmkd/)

Caught up on the last few dayllies and I've seen a feel people lose a lot. Can we talk about securing our bags a bit and thinking of how to avoid losing the entire stack? yes, it's an unpleasant to thing to think about but I'd rather do it and not get rekt completely.

I'll start with some of the things that I do and remember off the top of my head and feel free to chime in w others.

* Whenever the link is needed, especially important for airdrop claims or something big money related, go to the official source and even 2 to double check rather than clicking on whatever you see or someone sent you.

* If somebody or something is rushing you to make a decision quickly - quite likely it is a scam. Even if it's not a scam, you are losing out on a potential opportunity (no matter how gen wealth that opportunity is) but saving your bags. If you still have the bags then you can capitalize on future opportunities. 

* Don't download anything that's given to you in the crypto world. Sometimes people dm me with links and even trusted people and I tell them I wouldnt download any files even if I trust them cause what if they got hacked and now somebody is targeting me.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/SikhSoldiers shares his latest write up about RocketPool</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1akw42k/daily_general_discussion_february_7_2024/kpg2ovy/)

It has been a long time since I've made a top level post here it feels like. Alas, that's what medical school does to a person. I am back to share with everyone my first major writing piece in over a year - 

Hybrid Theory: Rocket Pool's Middle Way Between Native Liquid Restaking and Pure Staking.

The Rocket Pool pDAO will soon be voting on allowing, alterning, or denying my proposed integration bounty. This essay outlines why I think it's a good idea for Rocket Pool, Eigenlayer, and Ethereum writ large. 

The broad idea is that we can enable node operators to join Eigenlayer without adding risk to rETH holders if we integrate in a way that retains senior debt for rocket pool. I dub this hybrid restaking. The essay goes through all the different ways people can restake today and outlines their flaws. 

Hybrid restaking enables permsionless node operators to be sustainably profit maxi without harming rETH. Rocket Pool node operators could experience many airdrops and yield from different AVS services. 

I am happy to answer any (sincere) questions. 

<https://mirror.xyz/jasperthefriendlyghost.eth/Xv7lLt8SVTfCaFnVie50IvvFrI4-TkQTgZcxb\_omEnA>

</details>
