---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-08-30
episode: 76
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/LMU8zvIieC
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iVdRYKmR-iQ
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f4n4q0/comment/lkmjc4s/)

[u/danseidansei](https://reddit.com/u/danseidansei)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2516.30

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.0425

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f29003/comment/lk8goc3/)

*Storage can't go bloat,*

*Blockchain should not be a moat,*

*Accept that banknote.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/cryptrd285</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1exh5g5/daily_general_discussion_august_21_2024/lj7lmtx/)

Vitalik ETH bull post lol

<https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/1826253901240431083>

Edit: it will be hilarious if this marks the bottom

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/krokodilmannchen shares Vitalik's actual — not a shitpost — bullpost</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1eyb1rd/daily_general_discussion_august_22_2024/ljcvok0/)

*Wake up babe, Vitalik is bull posting.*

> Ethereum has gotten stronger:
> 
> * Under $0.01 txfees on L2
> * Two EVM L2s (@Optimism @arbitrum) now at stage 1
> * Cross-L2 wallet UX has improved a lot (eg. no more manually switching networks), though still a long way to go
> * Much more powerful and mature ZK tooling making life easier for app builders
> * Starting to see second-generation privacy tools (eg. @0xbowio)
> * Identity/reputation/credentials ecosystem much more powerful, and starting to actually be used more and more
> * Progress on STARKs leads to much clearer long-term security and decentralization story
> * Much more clarity on account abstraction roadmap
> * Much more clarity on block construction endgame (it seems to be down to FOCIL + APS vs multi-proposer)
> * Staking decentralization stable (see comparison charts below, the "PoS is more centralized than PoW" line has proven completely false)
> 
> The fundamentals for Ethereum are actually crazy strong right now.

<https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/1826506920393355347>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nagus 's Ethereum thesis has remained and strengthened since 2016</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ez4fxr/daily_general_discussion_august_23_2024/ljnmoik/)

1. Conviction.  Ethereum thesis from 2016 is unchanged; still the most decentralized blockchain, most trusted, energy efficient, second-most lindy, and the core developers have an excellent war chest even 9 years onwards as everyone here has noted today.  Also, for anyone who thinks Ethereum is too big or too boring to make great risk-adjusted returns - remember that Ethereum was the second-largest market cap cryptocurrency when it was trading at $6 in Dec 2016.
2. ETF flows are only just about to get started with major RIAs allowed to begin allocating in the coming months - only the very most sophisticated self-directed individual investors have begun allocating in US retirement accounts.
3. Market liquidity from rate cuts and dxy tailwinds incoming - send it.
4. Regulatory environment outlook in the world's largest economy is looking better than it has ever been.
5. Stablecoins remain the near-term killer app and the Ethereum ecosystem is still poised to capture most of this; the world's smallest economies are adopting first on the lowest-cost blockchain solutions but the largest economies will adopt last and they will choose Ethereum-based infrastructure for a stronger security guarantee due to the larger economic risk.
6. Medium-term the continued rise of AI applications will provide more tailwinds for crypto as automated financial agents leverage the machine-friendly interfaces of blockchains for banking and transactions.

This is a much easier investment thesis to make than it was in 2016 and consequently is the reason I've remained close to fully invested since then.

The short-term frenzy of memecoins and L1-of-the-year technologies will continue to be eclipsed in the long-term by the secular growth of cryptocurrencies with incredible value accruing to the leaders in the space.  The risk/reward profile of Ethereum is better than it has ever been..

Am I talking my book?  Hell yeah I am.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/18boro shares links to contribute to trials of Roman Storm and Aleksei Pertsev (tornado cash)</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ez4fxr/daily_general_discussion_august_23_2024/ljlefwk/)

New tweet from Roman Storm (tornado cash) today: 

> Folks, I have to win and it takes resources!   
> Please help.  
> Im severely underfunded for the trial.
> 
>   
> If you have any spare ETH, consider donating to him and Aleksei Pertsev. Pertsev is already in jail, but here's some info about his situation from Ameen Soleimani [https://x.com/ameensol/status/1822280721870016711](https://x.com/ameensol/status/1822280721870016711)
> 
> There's also NFTs to be claimed if that's your cup of tea.  I'm putting up the links for their donation sites, but please do your due dilligence of course. 
> 
> Roman Storm
> 
> [https://juicebox.money/v2/p/618](https://juicebox.money/v2/p/618)
> 
> Alexey Pertsev 
> 
> [https://juicebox.money/v2/p/713](https://juicebox.money/v2/p/713)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/abcoathup Eight year anniversary of Week in Ethereum News</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ezxfho/daily_general_discussion_august_24_2024/ljo3p4t/)

**Latest Week in Ethereum News**

🎂 Eight year anniversary

[https://weekinethereumnews.com/week-in-ethereum-news-august-24-2024](https://weekinethereumnews.com/week-in-ethereum-news-august-24-2024)

Huge thank you to Evan Van Ness for 8 years of Week in Ethereum News. Evan puts in a huge amount of hours in each week to gift the Ethereum community high quality curated news.

I'm forever grateful to have played a small part in this amazing public good.  3 and a bit years editing for me.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Vinegar_Strokes__ Shares some critical moments in Ethereum's history</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f0opjz/daily_general_discussion_august_25_2024/ljx3saz/)

I thought this article was a pretty good read.

Give it a click if you want some content.

<https://cointelegraph.com/magazine/11-critical-moments-ethereum-history-that-made-eth-no2-blockchain/>

To summarize the events.

- The Ethereum white paper — 2013. 
- The Red Wedding — 2014.
- ICO and launch — 2014. 
- The DAO hack and Ethereum Classic — 2016.
- CryptoKitties breaks Ethereum — 2017.
- DeFi summer — 2020.
- Rollup roadmap overhaul — October 2020. 
- Proof-of-stake, the Merge — September 2022. 
- Decun upgrade: blobs and sharing - March 2024 
- Blackrock - March 2024 
- ETF's - July 2024

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade is fighting misinformation about Ethereum in other subs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f0opjz/daily_general_discussion_august_25_2024/ljwn4nj/)

At it again today to fight misinformation in r/cc 

Anytime Ethereum is mentioned there will be someone to say it's not decentralized. I'd say half of them believe it, and many of the people who read them will believe them.

I wish Ethereum had armies of people fighting disinformation like other projects have armies to create it. But it's a frustrating way of spending time.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth is brining back the EVMavericks Weekly Recap (August 19-25) and encourages us to join in the vibes on discord</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f1g6p2/daily_general_discussion_august_26_2024/lk2lfpg/)

[EVMavericks Weekly Recap (August 19-25)](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2Fad9f89dca03501f7aceaffa0e72c4268.png&w=1200&q=75)

[Blog & Newsletter on Paragraph](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks)

Catch up on a week's worth of, mostly, Discord content: get some inside scoop and the feel of our vibes. For all the details, visit directly our Discord.

1. [Voting for Doots Podcast in Octant's epoch 5 is live.](https://snapshot.org/#/octantapp.eth/proposal/0x298b771e8fddbe16ff850ba7a8d77423c6723f763079908fd110b92d2cb7ba28)

    Big shoutout to bbroad.eth aka Ben for spearheading this opportunity for EVMavericks and r/Ethfinance!

2. If any mav is going to Permissionless and needs a place to stay - dm coco on discord.

3. Zombie is looking for 10-14 EVMs to participate in the annual Fantasy Football League. Check out one of the recent announcements in discord to find the exact place for that or just tag ZombieBP.

4. 696 is asking around for a website creator to help out with a project for public goods. if you are one or know one - dm.

5. Degen chat mints base subnames. 

    Some talk about ENS ensues. 

    Tron gets degens' attention. 

    Attention shifts to EF and them selling ETH. 

    Untouchable2k reminds us about his 0xbitcoin call that's at x2 and he shares his future predictions. 

    GreenGeorges long TON, other mavs proceed to follow and all involved end up making some moneyz.

6. Our memecoins connoisseurs continue being early and hitting it consistenly. Lots of talk, it's the most active place as of recent months. Discussions from polymarket bets to long term 'safe' bets on memecoins. But most importantly, lots of plays. Of course we have some losses buuuut

    Here are some top plays of the week:

    \~15x $suncat by eleusys

    \~6x $pjeet by etheraider

    \~5x $tiedan by eleusys

    \~4x $vibes by whatthefuck.eth

    \~2x $odong by eleusys

7. Decentralized onchain governance consultants aka airdrop farmers talk about the state of airdrops and whether they are going to be worth it and majority conclude that the frenzy is over for now. 

    GreenGeorge keeps being bullish on Hyperliquid and their ecosystem. 
 
    Hocilef shares scroll farming opportunity. 
 
    Onchainscore link is shared by dray. 
  
    And much more!

8. Our creative lions ain't sleeping neither. [TheBenMeadows dropped his first Gamma print.](https://x.com/TheBenMeadows/status/1825561688244199859) 

9. Our ETHFITNESS thread has been revived. That's for all the ETH heads who are trying to stay fit 💪

10. We had a mini sweep and a total of 4 buys last week. 

11. JT hosts [a ninja edition of the Weekly Doots - #75.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBU_l5di7pQ)

Lastly, **your weekly security reminder**: here’s a [few guides](https://imgur.com/a/wallet-security-guides-DSvQrXs)!

* EVMavericks discord has a security channel. You can literally mute everything else but that channel and only get notifications from there.
* Reminder for all the folks: we have a daily-discussion channel in the discord that's open to public and there's a decent amount of activity there!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 shares some exciting new validator client news</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f29003/daily_general_discussion_august_27_2024/lk523rf/)

Today's finally the day I get to share something with you I've been working on for some time - a new validator client targeting Ethereum. It's biggest advantage is it allows you to use and combine the data from multiple beacon nodes. This allows us to use multiple client implementations at Serenita, combining their output and results in us being completely protected against single-client bugs! My hope is other operators adopt this too, resulting in a more client-diverse and resilient Ethereum.

I made an introductory tweet [here](https://x.com/SerenitaIO/status/1828329758851236232) , I would appreciate any likes/retweets since our Twitter presence is not that huge yet.

Some more details [over on r/ethstaker](https://reddit.com/r/ethstaker/comments/1f2b0pw/improving_client_diversity_with_vero/), I'm happy to answer any questions here as well!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog covers the Maker rebranding and u/Stobie discusses the controversial part</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f29003/daily_general_discussion_august_27_2024/lk6hqhi/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

Makerdao rebrands as sky. The protocol is now sky protocol. You can swap MKR to SKY tokens, but you can keep your MKR if you want.

A new stablecoin called USDS is created it can be swapped from/to DAI 1:1. Not sure how long this is possible. DAI can still be used. The protocol gets officially launched on September 18.

USDS seems to have built in SKY rewards. SKY tokens will be distributed to USDS holders/protocol users.

More info on: <https://forum.makerdao.com/t/sky-has-arrived/24959>

Really curious how this relaunch will turn out in the coming years.

EDIT: As announced, the new USDS has a freeze function which makes it similar to USDC adn USDT: <https://xcancel.com/functi0nZer0/status/1828432650152935605>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f29003/daily_general_discussion_august_27_2024/lk9o5na/)

[u/Stobie](https://reddit.com/u/Stobie):

Seems strong negative initial reaction to makerdao and dai upcoming upgrade, largely because it has a "freeze function". AFAICT from [https://github.com/makerdao/usds/blob/dev/src/Usds.sol](https://github.com/makerdao/usds/blob/dev/src/Usds.sol) there's no explicit freeze function for now, the issue is it's upgradeable which is equivalent to having a freeze function. I think to be fair to sky people should acknowledge basically everyone has exposure to upgradeable protocols already, including the major stablecoins. It was inevitable if the goal is to work with RWAs with sufficient compliance, should be no surprise.

Practically we can't avoid mutability exposure (use immut. silo and USDC or chainlink multisigs can still get you), key is how it's done. Is it a multisig that might be one guy with no time delay? Or is it a token vote which is very slow / is multisig behind a timelock? Seems likely in this case auth is DAO which is too transparent and slow to freeze anything, user can move before DAO adds them to pause map.

I think sky and usds will have their place, excited to see how it goes. But more so for "pure dai", we lost NM but he still talked to Rune about these things a little, maybe they can come up with something which meaningfully improves on RAI.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Detroitlions81 reflects on the Ethereum experience</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f29003/daily_general_discussion_august_27_2024/lkaaqjs/)

Something I miss from the bear market of \~2018-2020 are the inside jokes and the dark humor to get us through the rough times. EZPZ $324 that one rhino account mocking us as we slid further, the hodl messages. I look back at that time weirdly well. I guess I was so self assured that we were misunderstood or not understood at all.

The last bull run we were learning about maker, compound, uniswap, aave, yearn finance and it was this adventure to try all them out and exciting to try a whole new world without filling out forms, showing your identity or waiting on someone’s approval. It was fun to be an explorer and then it got even better because we got airdrops out of it. And from there it turned into something else where we turned into airdrop hunters. I didn’t feel incentives to try out something unless it had airdrop potential. Other protocols started getting hacked and it felt even worse to try things that weren’t battle tested. Our tolerance to take risks and explore was diminished by the two prong attack of protocol hacks and airdrop expectations.

All of this compounded with the idea that none of the l2 experience feels like the OG experience of eth. Trying to explain to outsiders how you found a new protocol to try out on scroll becomes an absolute chore. I.E purchase some eth on Coinbase, purchase a hardware wallet, send eth to your wallet, bridge to scroll, and from there trust that this protocol doesn’t have an exploit that loses your funds. 

Like yeah maybe it’s not all that difficult to figure out if you put in the effort. You take the time and learn. The logic is sound if you find the right places or people to guide you. But it’s too much to expect people that don’t share the passion to get into. 

I’m optimistic it’ll get better truly. But to get to that next level I think a lot of these L2’s need to consolidate. OP or Zksync or Arbitrum need to feel just like Ethereum or build their own brand to Ethereum’s level. 

Thanks for reading. There just aren’t people I see in the world that understand or care about Ethereum.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 speculates on future blob demand</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1f31zal/daily_general_discussion_august_28_2024/lkbmqp8/)

Three filled blobs are worth around 500 USD for ETH price in burn from blobspace alone. We are close to filling it up not even 6 months onto the upgrade. Ethereum's usage has grown up 700% in one year from 50-60 tps to 350-400 tps and is not showing signs of stopping here. 

Why I'm saying this... 3 years ago nobody had a fucking clue how to value Ethereum. So I wrote a little article explaining how you can value the network based on fee revenues, how to calculate a DCF, how the burn places a floor on Ethereum's long-term price, how you can view the burn as having an equivalent effect to the price as a buyback... 3 years later this understanding has penetrated deeper and now you have CT "analysts" calling ETH dead because they don't understand EIP-1559 fee mechanism and how it creates a fee market. And they are using the same arguments that were laid out on this subreddit first to price Ethereum, against it. 

They still have no fucking clue. Ethereum is gonna fill those blobs, and then we are gonna release more blobs and they will get filled again. And every factor of 3 is gonna bring another 500 USD in price to Ethereum through burn. And in a decade you will have something like 64 blobs and that's gonna bring you 10K USD/ETH just from blobspace. Not even taking into account L1 native blockspace. And not taking into account any monetary premium that will slowly form because ETH will become the most pristine collateral of all that economy flowing on top and has way lower issuance than USD and even Bitcoin. 


Here are the numbers...

`500 tps x (60 x 60 x 24) secs/day x 0.05 USD/tx x 50% (L1 value capture) / 2500 ETH/day`

There are 3 assumptions here, so I let you decide their uncertainty.

500 tps with 3 blobs: Based on estimates of current tps and blobs filled. Blobs could get denser with compression improvements. But likely not an order of magnitude denser.

0.05 USD average L2 fee: This should land the median fee in around 1-2 cents that is low even for very low added value transactions like buying a coffee. Therefore at those fees even the lowest added value transactions are feasible onchain. This is also close to Solana average fees, so at those fees you can outcompete the promise of cheap fees of alt L1s.

50% value capture: the hardest to estimate. I suspect it will be a tad higher eventually, 70ish%. But assuming 50% has the advantage of not being too far wrong in either direction. If L1 only captures 25% of value (which I consider very low) we are wrong by a factor of 2. If L1 captures almost all value we are wrong by a factor of 2. So I'm splitting the bill here. 

2500 ETH/day is just how many we issue nowadays. This is quite bounded from above given Ethereum's issuance formula.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz shares the Guardians of the Ether upgradable NFTfor solo and home stakers</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ez4fxr/daily_general_discussion_august_23_2024/ljjmocf/)

This has been a LONG time coming, but /u/jtnichol, /u/nixorokish, and /u/logic_beach, and I met with Leo Glisic and Kyndle, founders of [Guardians of the Ether](https://www.etherguardians.xyz/) to share their project publicly.

Guardians of the Ether is an upgradable NFT for solo & home stakers that serves as a badge that can promote inclusion of stakers in governance.

These NFTs are non-transferrable, so there is no economic incentive to claim this NFT - only bragging rights. (Think twenty years from now!)

Every year, a few weeks after September 15, these badges can be upgraded to show another year of beacon chain participation.

With gas in the low single-digits, now is an excellent time to mint yours.

[Here's the video launch describing the project](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JvFyIvgKmso).

You can also see the project on [opensea](https://opensea.io/collection/guardians-of-the-ether).

[Warpcast announcement](https://warpcast.com/leoglisic/0xafd58abe)

A [tweet thread from Leo Glisic](https://x.com/Leo_Glisic/status/1826964801458974969).

</details>

Huge shout out to [u/equal-jellyfish1](https://reddit.com/u/equal-jellyfish1) for filling the gaps as our Substidooter! It truly allows this amazing service to maintain longevity and much deserved breaks for our resident troll

