---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-01-19
episode: 52
guest: Mike Silagadze
guest_topic: "[Ether.Fi](https://ether.fi), a native liquid restaking protocol"
weekly_link: https:/reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/EW2Ai6vKUd
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9_AloQt26Q
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/167076
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/19ac5xh/comment/kijwlnn/)

[u/Fiberpunk2077](https://reddit.com/u/Fiberpunk2077)

> Ethereum

[u/UgotTrisomy21](https://reddit.com/u/UgotTrisomy21)

> $2461

[u/PooeyGusset/](https://reddit.com/u/PooeyGusset/)

> 0.059

[u/usesbinkvideo/](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo/)

> 89,027 hodlers subscribed 

[u/5quat/](https://reddit.com/u/5quat/)

> 490d SM

[u/5quat/](https://reddit.com/u/5quat/)

> 799d since ATH (ratiogang)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/198pjar/comment/ki9t0aw/)

*Ether beats the odds,*

*Upscaling the rollup squads,*

*Welcome to the blobs.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Sourdoughpretzel4444</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1971kkf/daily_general_discussion_january_15_2024/khyjhp8/)

Today is a banking holiday in the states and because of that I cannot:

1. Deposit/withdraw my monies

2. Receive direct deposits of monies 

3. Have any monies cleared/settled in my accounts

4. Buy the stonk :(

THE FUTURE OF FRANCIS

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/accidental_green developed an awesome tool to encourage client diversity. With more indepth Here!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/193ukvu/daily_general_discussion_january_11_2024/khc7q53/)

In the spirit of client diversity, I created an open source tool that allows anyone to instantly swap to a minority client with 0 configuration or effort. Just 1 click, new client.

I added a simple GUI, so switching clients can now be done with 0 programming experience in under 30 seconds.

Installation is based on Somer Esat's guides and works with Geth, Besu, and Nethermind on both mainnet and testnets.

Feel free to check out the [ethstaker post](https://reddit.com/r/ethstaker/comments/193wwen/ethereum_client_switcher_switch_from_geth_in_30/) or see the details on Github:

- [Client Switcher](https://github.com/accidental-green/client-switcher): Instantly switch Execution Client  
- [Validator Install](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-install): Fresh Ubuntu to full validator in minutes  
- [Validator Updater](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-update): Update Execution and Consensus client to latest versions

These are personal projects that have not been audited, but the code is open source and fairly easy to understand. Any testing or feedback is always appreciated!

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/198pjar/daily_general_discussion_january_17_2024/kiabpxy/)

I created an open source validator updater that allows home stakers to update their entire setup in a single click with almost no downtime!

**Github repo**: [https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-updater](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-updater)

**Validator Updater Summary:**

1. Select Execution Client to update: (Besu, Geth, Nethermind)
2. Select Consensus Client to update: (Lighthouse, Nimbus, Prysm, Teku)
3. Select Update MEV-boost: (Yes or No)
4. Click "Update" to close the window and return to the terminal

Once complete, restart the services and ensure the validator is still attesting.

The updated binaries are installed at /usr/local/bin to be compatible with Somer Esat's guides, but can be adapted to work with non-standard installations.

Feel free to review my other validator related repos below:

[Validator Install](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-install)**:** Fresh Ubuntu to syncing validator in 1 minute  
[Validator Controller](https://github.com/accidental-green/validator-controller)**:** Validator GUI for easy operation (start, stop, journals, etc)  
[Client Switcher](https://github.com/accidental-green/client-switcher)**:** Instantly switch between Execution Clients

The code has not been audited, so use with caution. These are all open source community resources, so testing and suggestions are greatly appreciated.

Cheers and Happy Staking!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Syentist makes a case for raising the gas limit while u/thewalkinglive and u/16withScars share developer sentiment that we should be more cautious</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/193ukvu/daily_general_discussion_january_11_2024/khcoevx/)

[u/Syentist](https://reddit.com/u/Syentist):

Going to bring this up again: I strongly think we need to increase the gas limit, and Dencun is probably the best time to co-ordinate around this (although a HF is not needed for validators to increase the gas limit). 

A few things to point out again:

1. The last gas limit increase was early 2021, almost 3 years ago. Cost of SSDs have substantially reduced since then
2. Most L1 native apps (Maker vaults, ENS, LSTs) have not completed migration to L2s. Partly because we still don't have a Stage 2 L2 anyways. Which means users are still forced to use the L1, and pay high fees for basic and essential functions like taking a DAI loan or staking ETH for stETH.
3. We are clearly on the cusp of mainstream attention, especially as an ETH ETFapproval nears in May. Which means we are going to run into exceptionally high gas fees under current settings, and a constant narrative that the "Ethereum chain is unusable". An entire cohort of new users (probably the largest wave of new on-boarded users to date) will see the ridiculous fees on L1 (and by extension, L2s), see the sub-cent fees on Solana, and simply gravitate to the cheaper narrative. We will unnecessarily lose out on the narrative war, and the Nov-Dec period of scorn to the ethereum community is, I fear, just a prelude. 
4. Most importantly: Vitalik has soft-signalled this twice in the past week. First, in the tweet thread on the roadmap update (when he pointed out gas limit increase doesn't need a HF and can be done anytime), and secondly and more explicitly, in yesterday's EF AMA. Now, the problems with increasing the gas limit: State growth, client stability, cost of minimal equipment - \*of-fucking-course these variables are playing out in Vitalik's head\*, he has written more on this than pretty much anyone alive. Of course he is aware of it, no? But pragmatic choices need to be made, and that is what I see here in his comments. 
5. Finally, I think it is time the ethereum community and core protocol development process "formalised" a framework for minimum validator specs per fixed cost of fiat. It can't be based on just vibes. It can't be that we want to - eventually - run a full validator on the computing power of a microwave (running lightclients is a differnet story). We need a reasonable threshold - something like a full validator should not cos more than $800 to assemble. And every 12 months or so, we review the hardware prices, and if it costs cheaper than $800 (or X threshold) to run a validator, we raise the gas limit (or number of blobs or whatever else).

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/193ukvu/daily_general_discussion_january_11_2024/khcmz7a/)

[u/thewalkinglive](https://reddit.com/u/thewalkinglive):

> What problem does increasing the gas limit solve?
> 
> Increasing it definitely has a downside. State will grow faster, sync time will get slower quicker, DoS potential will grow. Would be nice to have a number on those.
> 
> That said, what does increasing the gas limit net us?
> 
> I feel we're kind of yoloing this. Do we have the monitoring and metrics in place to see how things evolve? If not, IMO we should fist have tooling that can point to the effect of a change *before* making that change. Otherwise it's gonna get summed to "look, not dead yet".
> 
> If we had a solid monitoring, we could just bump by 1M, see what happens. Nothing gets wonky, ok, bump by another 1M.
> 
> Going 10M in one go hoping nothing will get borked in the next 5 years is a bit too optimistic to my taste. Even though it might as well be the case

\- Geth Team Lead - Péter Szilágyi

<https://twitter.com/peter_szilagyi/status/1745374731824439531>

What are your thoughts on this? It does make sense and I understand why he is annoyed. He is the one who has to deal with the impact of the increase in state size.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1968xe8/daily_general_discussion_january_14_2024/khs5hgh/)

[u/16withScars](https://reddit.com/u/16withScars):

On increasing the gas limit, I agree with [Francesco](https://twitter.com/fradamt/status/1745409249562206531) and [Dankrad](https://twitter.com/dankrad/status/1745406611202437356) (researchers at EF). 

My take is similar:

Bumping the gas limit just as EIP-4844 is about to be shipped which already increases storage and network bandwidth costs is a bad idea

this isn't the right time at all

given the better hardware argument, we should definitely be increasing the size of blobspace (not blockspace). But only after the Deneb HF.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 thinks we should organize around a community $STRK delegate. And then updates the search for an EthFinance/EVMavericks $STRK delegate</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/194nvno/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2024/khhnuxp/)

The result from the OP RPGF round 3 is a big motivation for me because it shows me that if we coordinate as a community, we can really get things done and improve the ecosystem.

I believe $STRK is around the corner. The snapshot for the airdrop is in according to an official tweet beginning of December 2023. The last upgrade allows tx to be paid in $STRK (but you obviously still use ETH as well). And afaik $STRK that lived on L1 for a long time now also is briged/ deployed on starknet.

I am also rather sure that $STRK will be a governance token because it is a governance token now and there are delegates participating in governance already, see this [vote/ example](https://governance.starknet.io/voting-proposals/0x8cf15c543775031ca8a8960747c00b501d0a6e4baef8ca8518701f73f98d61cb).

So here are some questions:

(1) Who has used Starknet a lot and knows the ecosystem? (whatever that means, hard to answer tbh)

(2) Who has the time, energy and willingness to act as a delegate for starknet?

I think it would be great if we could informally agree on 1, 2, 3, x delegates that could represent this community in the starknet ecosystem and governance. That obviously doesn't mean that you can't delegate your $STRK to someone else outside of this community! But if we agree on candidates beforehand, those potential delegates can setup everything when the token drops.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1971kkf/daily_general_discussion_january_15_2024/khy6tvo/)

So a quick update on the [$STRK delegate search](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/194nvno/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2024/khhnuxp/?context=3) I started on Friday:

We have a first candidate: u/Tricky_Troll is interested and I would probably borrow $STRK to delegate even more to him! (I won't, but I think Tricky is a great first candidate!)

But let's *not* stop here, I think we should have 2 or maybe even 3 candidates. First of all it would be great if we as a community had a choice from ETH Finance (and let me get that straight: not because I think Tricky is not a great candidate, as I said I would delegate to Tricky without thinking twice!). More importantly though, I think we will likely - as a community - have a lot of $STRK power that we probably should spread across at least 2 delegates. So I would be really happy to see more people coming forward! 

Also u/bob-rossi said that he would be happy to share his experience with people thinking about being a delegate. So if you wanna understand what it is like before you make a decision, feel free to contact him. Maybe a channel in the EVM discord like he suggested also makes sense and maybe other delegates would have a look as well, to share their thoughts. In a best case scenario "our" delegates not only receive voting power from Eth Finance, but maybe the more experienced delegates can tell us how they convinced people to delegate to them! 

So: I would be very excited if some people thought about being a delegate and of course best case share their interest here so we can coordinate. 

Let's go!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi will be running for an Arbitrum Grants council spot</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/194nvno/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2024/khijzq9/)

Discussions on the next version of the Arbitrum grants program have been underway and I wanted to share this for two reasons. 

1) It is currently in the Snapshot voting stage. So, if anyone here is involved with projects that are interested in that type of thing it might be a good idea to start coordinating what an application would look like. I don't believe they have any official application template just yet, but I'd imagine it will be pretty similar to the STIP rounds. This new round already has some changes that should hopefully make it less chaotic then the first STIP grants. 

2) One of the changes is creating a 5-member council that gives a first pass at all applicants. The goal here is to cut down on some of applicant volume so when delegates vote they can be less overwhelmed and have the ability to review the proposals a little more thoroughly. And then they are adding 3 "Applicant Advisor" roles as well. That group can help assist projects with polishing their application for a best chance of success. I wanted to mention that specifically for any projects that may apply, that the assistance is there. Both are an elected and paid position.

Relating to point two... part of my post is to let everyone here know I will be running for one of the council spots. I'm not sure how successful I will be honestly, but I wanted to at least make people here aware since I'm sure many of my delegates come from here. I actually applied a week+ ago, but wanted to wait until voting was closer to 'announce'.

I'm trying really hard to toe the line between being the overbearing "hey vote for me" guy while still being effective at least getting the word out. So I'll leave it simply at this - if there are any questions you have for me relating to my application, or even just any thoughts on what a successful council would look like if I got elected, please let me know. And of course, if you do decide to support me always know I will be grateful! 

I really, really wish I could link the post... but probably easiest to find more info about the grant program would be going to the [Snapshot Vote](https://snapshot.org/#/arbitrumfoundation.eth/proposal/0x8112be08246466f870d0b91590fe99211f73d15cfdadac62ff3f1e6b2f74869a) and clicking the corresponding link to the main Arbitrum governance forum. Then if you are interested in who is running for council, the 17th post in that thread will have a link directly to the "**LTI Pilot Program Position Application Thread".** Which alternatively can be found by going to the main forum page, clicking under the blue "Dao Grants Program" subsection, and finding that thread near the top. Sorry for the runaround, but Reddit does really make it this much of a pain...

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ethical-trade discusses the future of France Finance</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1971kkf/daily_general_discussion_january_15_2024/khyb3rv/)

By now I'm sure we've all seen Larry Fink, CEO of the world's largest asset manager Blackrock (with $9 trillion in assets, 3 times France's entire GDP), saying that the future of france is tokenization of assets "**on one single ledger**" ([source](https://twitter.com/AltcoinDailyio/status/1746243017508614392)). More specifically, he talked about bonds and stocks.

But what could this "one single ledger" be?

In [this other interview](https://twitter.com/Cryptik1E/status/1745776244745289934), Fink again mentions stepping stones towards tokenization **right after speaking about an ether ETF**.

Since that I've read a few Ethereum detractors saying that there's no way tokenization of stocks and bonds will happen on mainnet Ethereum, because issuers will need an environment they can control. And this is probably sort of right.

But what they'll also need is an environment that fully communicates with the leading tokenization platform. 

[Ethereum currently holds 55% of all of defi's TVL](https://defillama.com/chains), here's your leading platform. That's the "one single ledger" Fink talks about. And that's without counting rollups and sidechains. And before a 10x scaling of rollups in a couple of months.

But interoperability and control, how to you reconciliate these two? 

In the past banks have created their own permissioned Ethereum clones (Hyperledger, Quorum, ... more about these [here](https://ethereum.org/en/enterprise/private-ethereum)). They looked like intranet, closed and safe versions of the internet. But have you heard of projects that crossed the chasm and made it to mainnet? I haven't. Just like intranet, these projects were fun playground but didn't take advantage of the full potential of Ethereum. What good is a website others can't reach?

Today, the scaling solution(s) chosen by the Ethereum community happen to be absolutely perfect for reconciliating interoperability with control. A rollup, a volition, a validium or any other hybrid solution is just what's needed to solve this problem. 

You can be part of the ecosystem, but still retain some degree of control. 

Not only that but the cost will soon basically be net zero: we can safely expect that launching your own L2 on Ethereum will be as trivial as launching a smart contract: copy some open source code and let stakers manage security for you through Eigenlayer. How much did Hyperledger and Quorum cost to create and operate? I couldn't find figures but a shitload I'm sure. How much will launching a rollup cost in 2 years? 1,000 or 10,000 less?

I don't like Fink and probably never will. But it truly amazes me how far we've come.

Today, the CEO of the world's largest asset managers sees the future we've seen for years, a future of finance with Ethereum at its core.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Defacticool thinks that many are missing the looming product market fit for Ethereum and u/JebediahKholin expands on that</summary>
[View on Reddit →]()

[u/Defacticool](https://reddit.com/u/Defacticool):

I wanted to repost the article [u/vvpan](https://reddit.com/u/vvpan) provided the other day about the progress and interest in tokenising securities by institutional firms. 

In this case Brewan Howard. 

I wanted to repost it because I really dont think it got the recognition it deserved. You know those "steps" Larry Fink talked about which eventually culminate in full tokenisation of everything. *This is the next big step* 

And as I said I believe this usecase alone, if eventually succesful at scale (such that it picks up a network effect) could swell Ethereum to unfathomable degrees. I truly think this is being slept on by us crypto natives. 

*This*  is the "crypto taking over tradfi" moment. *This* is the "Ethereum is the new internet" moment. If it succeeds. 

"Product market fit"? *This* is it. 

I've provded an archive link to bypass the paywall and I'll paste the artivle text too. 

<https://archive.ph/v4BVk#selection-4891.0-4891.13>

<https://news.bloomberglaw.com/crypto/brevan-howard-joins-in-on-institutional-push-to-tokenize-funds>

> Brevan Howard plans to tokenize at least one of its funds through a partnership with a startup backed by Nomura’s Laser Digital, making it the latest financial heavyweight to experiment with putting money on blockchains.
> 
> Libre Capital, the startup which includes Laser Digital and the Alan Howard-backed incubator WebN Group as investors, said it will offer zero fees to asset managers who tokenize funds on its namesake platform. Brevan Howard, along with Hamilton Lane, said they’ll be the first asset managers to do so. Libre’s public blockchain technology is supported by Ethereum scaling firm Polygon.
> 
> “The tokenisation of funds allows us to offer investors a new way to access our strategies, providing them with optionality, and further develops our platform to serve client needs,” said Natalie Smith, head of strategy and client partnerships group at Brevan Howard, in a release.
> 
> Brevan Howard is one of the earliest Wall Street participants in the digital-asset sector. Its digital-currency fund rose 44% last year. Even so, this will still be the Jersey, Channel Islands-based investment firm’s first tokenized fund. The process has been promoted heavily recently as one of the few viable use cases for blockchains. Citigroup estimated the tokenization market could swell to $5 trillion by 2030.
> 
> “Ultimately, our goal isn’t to make money on the distribution side,” said Avtar Sehra, CEO and founder of Libre, in an interview. “For us, we want to take the money and the operational costs as close to zero as possible.”
> 
> Libre also plans to launch collateralized lending and automated rebalancing of separately managed accounts later in 2024, according to Sehra.
> 
> With Libre taking zero fees from fund distributors for tokenization, Sehra anticipated that the company will profit mostly from the lending and SMAs businesses.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1971kkf/daily_general_discussion_january_15_2024/khzflyw/)

[u/JebediahKholin](https://reddit.com/u/JebediahKholin):

I often find myself thinking that eth is a natural solution to a lot of global financial problems. The latest is the fink tokenized asset commentary.

Another was the issue of central banks not having a fast trustless way to trade currencies. To an eth enthusiast, this is an obvious fit - issue currencies as erc20s, and let the trading simply occur in a trustless format.

The imf didn’t even consider this, but instead addressed all kinds of cbdc variants. The obvious problem is that they’re all trusted, and countries simply don’t trust each other enough to use one another’s private chains. The imf briefly addressed bitcoin as a possibility before dismissing it.

I wonder if a lot of this reflexive hostility to eth and permissionless programmable chains is a response to bitcoin and its dominant narrative. Bitcoiners talk about fiat being worthless and central banks as enemies - of course central banks are going to view this with hostility. They view an attack on their fiat as an attack on their sovereignty. The digital gold/SoV approach makes much more sense for how bitcoin is set up, but also is less of a direct challenge.

Anyway, all this to say that closed eth clones are always going to have the problem of being trusted, and if you’re not part of the consortium running the chain, you’re ultimately at their mercy. Now matter how big that consortium is, there will always be some outside it, thereby limiting its network effects.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/bagogel12 shares the latest exploit and in light of this, u/PhiMarHal shares some pointers on best practice security</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/197vodp/daily_general_discussion_january_16_2024/ki62c9c/)

[u/bagogel12](https://reddit.com/u/bagogel12):

Security alert!

Bungee / socket being exploited.

Revoke contract 0x3a23f943181408eac424116af7b7790c94cb97a5

source Spreek

<https://twitter.com/spreekaway/status/1747337879771033632>

Edit: Only mainnet exploited, other chains could be exploitable. Same contract on other chains, 0xaDdE7028e7ec226777e5dea5D53F6457C21ec7D6 on zksync era.

Edit2: Afaik if you used bungee you should be fine, as their webapp does only approve the amount you like to send.

Edit3: <https://twitter.com/SocketDotTech/status/1747349422730813525> Socket confirmed and paused the contract.

Edit4: Hopefully last edit. Revoke cash has created a tool to easily check. Although contracts are paused, it's recommended to revoke if your address is affected. It could also happen that you bridged with services like zerion or rainbow. [<https://revoke.cash/exploits/socket?chainId=1>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/197vodp/daily_general_discussion_january_16_2024/ki6de03/)

[u/PhiMarHal](https://reddit.com/u/PhiMarHal):

Fast reaction from Bungee.

This sent me on a revoke binge regardless. It's easy to get sloppy for the sake of convenience. The other day I mentioned using Odos rather than other aggregators so I limit my approvals. Of course, this requires actually revoking previous approvals!

I like the idea of a 2 addresses setup, to limit risk. Address A holds all funds. Only ever sends and receives tokens to address B. Address B is the trader. Approves everything, does the swaps, gets into the tokenized positions, transfers everything back to A once each series of operations is done. This protects against many hacks since A holds everything and approves nothing.

However... It's hard to have the discipline to stick to this. It would be fantastic if there was wallet software to automate this behavior. You "start a session" and this triggers A sending whatever to B, then you operate B as a normal wallet, then as you "close your session" this triggers a transaction of B sending whatever newly acquired funds back to A. Even restricting any action from A that's not send to B (unless you enter a password to override, or whatever).

Probably hard to build but man I would love this.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/interweaver discovered and reported a bug in their execution client!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/198pjar/daily_general_discussion_january_17_2024/kidbw3k/)

Guess what, I had a [u/seamonkey82](https://reddit.com/u/seamonkey82) moment today, and helped find a client bug! Story time :D

Some of you may be aware that there's an ongoing debate about whether Ethereum can handle a slight increase in its block gas limit. This would make L1 gas slightly cheaper by creating more blockspace, at the expense of being harder to keep in sync with the chain for the weakest machines on the network. 

The gas limit is currently at 30M units of gas per block (which means 15M units is equilibrium). Some folks are proposing raising it 33%-50%, to e.g. 40M-45M, while others oppose any raises, especially in light of the upcoming EIP-4844, which will raise requirements a bit too.

The fun thing is, individual stakers actually are able to change this number themselves whenever they propose blocks. Unlike many other changes, you don't need a hardfork to accomplish it. Rather, individual stakers can pick their own "target gas limit", which their client will attempt to move the gas limit towards. The protocol allows the block gas limit to change by 1/1024th of the previous block's value, per block. In this way, if the majority of the stake decides on a new number, the value will start random walking its way to that new value, and stick there more firmly the greater the consensus. This mechanism is a holdover from the days of mining, but it's pretty neat.

Anyway, as a solo staker, I decided to YOLO raise my own limit last month, and set it up to 40M. This involves setting some flags in your execution and consensus clients. I run Besu/Lodestar, and set their flags appropriately.

Since then, I proposed (at least) one MEV-boost block. As expected, that block's gas limit was 30M + 30M / 1024, i.e. 30029295 units. A slightly less than 0.1% increase over the standard amount. It isn't much, but it helped make Ethereum L1 slightly cheaper for that block and (indirectly) the next few! Cool, everything's working!

Since *then*, I proposed (at least) one locally-built block (I have a min-bid set, like most responsible solo stakers who care about avoiding too much censorship, and it triggered.) As a reminder, locally built blocks are constructed by your execution client, in my case Besu, from the contents of their public mempools.

My locally built block(s), upon examination, looked great, except for one thing! Rather than 30029295 units of gas as expected, and rather than the 30M units of gas I would expect to see if I had misconfigured something, my locally built block(s) had a gas limit of 30001024. WTF? It's supposed to change by 1/1024 of the parent block, not by 1024!

Some in-depth adventures into the Besu Github later, I confirmed that indeed, there was a bug that was causing all Besu locally built blocks to only be able to shift up or downwards by a maximum of 1024 units of gas, rather than the (at present) 29295 units of gas expected. Put another way, Besu stakers with locally built blocks would only be able to move the gas limit about 3% as fast as locally-building stakers running other execution clients.

Jumping into the Besu Discord, I reported this situation, and worked through it with Matt Nelson, one of the excellent Besu team members who can be found there. He confirmed the bug and figured out the needed fix, and that should be making it into a future Besu version.

So anyway, moral of the story is, just YOLO changing numbers is apparently a great way to find client bugs, with your face :P Hopefully as the gas limit discussion continues, this means Besu stakers will be fully equipped if there is more of a mass movement in the direction of increasing that limit!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard, u/pr0nh0li0, and u/Set1Less comment on the SEC vs Coinbase lawsuit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/198pjar/daily_general_discussion_january_17_2024/kibyrvn/)

[u/LogrisTheBard](https://reddit.com/u/LogrisTheBard):

I am glued to this Coinbase case today. You couldn't have asked for a friendlier judge. The judge was practically feeding arguments to Coinbase. Gensler should be screaming at the screen if he's watching this.

The only argument Coinbase made that bounced seemed to be the major questions doctrine where the judge is hesitant to remove the authority of anyone but Congress to regulate anything about this space.

However, the SEC has completely failed to define why a baseball card or fantasy football team wouldn't be a security but tokens would. The SEC wants any anon trade on Coinbase to be a security contract if someone promoted it on Twitter. Coinbase wants a security contract to include at minimum some type of contract or legal right. Unless the token includes *inherent* rights like on-chain governance and a claim to dividends it's hard to argue you are entering a contract when purchasing a token.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/198pjar/daily_general_discussion_january_17_2024/kiaht6u/)

[u/pr0nh0li0](https://reddit.com/u/pr0nh0li0):

[Promising start to the SEC/Coinbase Trial:](https://x.com/EleanorTerrett/status/1747641703626924431?s=20) 

> Judge Failla is on fire right out of the gate. 
> 
> She says to the @SECGov lead lawyer, and I paraphrase: The “DeFi people” gave a “really fine” amicus brief explaining what staking is and what the wallet is used for, “arguably better” than how the Commission explained it in its briefing.” 
> 
> She also says the @SECGov hasn’t presented an opposing narrative for the legal foundations of Howey in its briefing.

<3 all you "defi people"

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/198pjar/daily_general_discussion_january_17_2024/kiaw043/)

[u/Set1Less](https://reddit.com/u/Set1Less):

Looks like the SEC is not done losing, they are looking to take another big L in the Coinbase / Staking case

<https://x.com/eleanorterrett/status/1747641703626924431>

Bruh....

> Failla then addresses the Howey Test: 
> “We’ve had a god run. We’ve had 90 years where these securities laws have been able to apply to these markets. But now we have something new.”

Holy smokes, hope the judge rules this way. This is the equivalent of complaining about someone encroaching on your parking spot only to end up losing your home in court

<https://x.com/RSSH273/status/1747647514302689553>

Favorite moment of argument so far:

> SEC — “the tokens themselves are not a security”
> 
> Failla — “that’s what the folks in the back table think (Coinbase). And they are wondering why we are here”

</details>
