---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-05-17
episode: 66
guest: Waq
guest_topic: "[Rocket Fuel](https://www.youtube.com/c/RocketFuel-RPL), a daily summary of all the happenings in the Rocket Pool community"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/ZgdkwZxRg5
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rC5OhVNoNNU
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/173772
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ctx7h5/comment/l4ex01u/)

[u/hehechibby](https://reddit.com/u/hehechibby)

> Ethereum

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 90,440 hodlers subscribed (+4)

[u/Vinegar_Strokes__](https://reddit.com/u/Vinegar_Strokes__)

> $2949

[u/the-A-word](https://reddit.com/u/the-A-word)

> 0.044

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cohjve/comment/l3hzyp0/)

*While you walk the walk,*

*Remember to talk the talk,*

*Blockchain needs no stock.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/NeedlerOP</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1crk4ou/daily_general_discussion_may_14_2024/l42ysky/)

It is late 2026, total crypto market cap reaches $50T after 10 consecutive memecoin seasons, all cyclical rotations in the cryptocurrency market have been replaced by memes.

Top 10 - all memes. Dogecoin and pepe replaced BTC and ETH, both receiving an ETF while the ETH ETF is still awaiting approval due to volatility and underlying utility concerns.

BTC and ETH linger at the low end of the top 25, just under recent newcomers: SkibbidyToiletInu69420XL, Kek, and Gamestop (unrelated coin, not the stock)

A soft hard recession that doesnt land is forecasted by JPow, whose forward guidance is expected to reduce some of the froth and risk seeking behaviour in the markets. 

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eetherway thinks that fully on-chain games are now possible</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cnp6qx/daily_general_discussion_may_9_2024/l3cdmmd/)

*Posting directly here, as I was informed people don't like clicking through to Twitter links:*   
  
Building a fully onchain game is stupid, and you could just do it with existing infrastructure without needing the blockchain... at least that's what I'm told.  

After spending 3 years building a FOCG, here are some of the least known and most impactful reasons to build them:🧵

**1. Peer-to-peer infrastructure for gaming**

To create a player driven world, that enables play to flow between players without an intermediary requires significant infrastructure.

Traditionally this would be a set of servers that are rented/bought, maintained, and tooled by the gaming studio. 

While possible it is exorbitantly expensive, time consuming, and requires engineers to maintain. For an indie studio it's likely not a great use of resources, hence why we likely haven't seen it in traditional gaming. 

Building fully onchain significantly reduces cost and maintenance for teams which would otherwise make it prohibitive to build such games. 

Cost down, efficiency up

**2. Blockchains give us a world computer**

Blockchains like Ethereum have revolutionized the development landscape by enabling the creation of decentralized, peer-to-peer systems without the burden of maintaining costly infrastructure.

Teams no longer need to find independent solutions to develop applications that are universally accessible online without acting as intermediaries in transactions. 

This additionally helps eliminate many of the issues with "money exchanger" laws, as seen with platforms like Uniswap, where users transact directly, rather than something like Venmo that holds your funds. 

Reduces operation cost and maintenance needs ✅ Helps avoid potential legal issues ✅

**3. Free Market & Asset Exchange**

Blockchains enable more efficient markets by allowing users to own and control their accounts and assets separate from the game itself. 

While traditional companies can support the buying, selling, and trading of items within games, these activities are usually centralized and restricted. 

By fostering open markets where players can freely transfer items without fear of bans or deletions by the game studio, we empower players to determine the value of their goods. 

This model also supports asset trading across different games, enabling players to use their collected items to access new games through trading. Players can do this without needing to download new launchers, software, third-party applications, or create new accounts and spend additional money.

Free Markets ✅ Unrestricted trading ✅ Trading across game titles ✅

---

We could make cars powered by steam, but we don't. We do this because it would be impractical.

Building fully onchain creates a new way to build games, and with recent advancements to scaling, blockchains have become incredible efficient in enabling this new way to build.

Lastly, these types of games whether built on traditional rails or with blockchain still need to be fun.

So even if one day we all believe building onchain games for specific game types is the best solution, it's up to the studio to craft experiences players want to play.

Curious to get your thoughts :)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptOwOcurrency tells a clever story to explain why Ark Invest may have intentionally put staking in their ETF only to remove again</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cohjve/daily_general_discussion_may_10_2024/l3jlr96/)

There once was a famous interior designer who served many high value business clients. She noticed her clients always wanted to have a hand in the design - after she laid out their place, they would always want to change it a little. They’d want it to ”pop more”, or “feel more chill”, or “more cozy”. This slowed down the designer’s job significantly, as she had to make a costly and time consuming second design pass to appease the client. 

After a pattern of this happening, the designer realized that her clients always felt like they needed to make at least one change to her designs, to convince their bosses that they added value and weren’t just standing around and letting a contractor make all the big decisions.

It was upon this realization that the designer had a brilliant idea. From then on she added a wooden statue of a duck to each of her new interior designs. Her new clients, when shown these designs, would say “that looks good, just remove the duck statue.” As this was an easy fix to make, it saved the interior designer a considerable amount of time and effort in redesigns. Her new designs were always approved, minus the duck, and she never had to do a second design pass again.

ETH ETFs are the design, staking is the duck, and the SEC is the manager who needs to feel like they had some input.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/KuDeTa gives us an update on Aestus</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cohjve/daily_general_discussion_may_10_2024/l3h7ye1/)

I wanted to give a short update on the EigenLayer Aestus AVS Operator - especially since the $EIGEN "stakedrop" *(lol)* went live earlier today. Over the last 3 weeks or so we've attracted about [\~3000ETH from \~100 participants](https://app.eigenlayer.xyz/operator/0x30eafe8869a1528660a97b7a7e8e2d0037dcb922). This is a pretty reasonable(!) start and we're obviously tremendously grateful for the continued support from members of this and the wider solo-staker community. That said, we're also keen to grow this significantly over the next 6 months. 

u/AustonSt and I have been pretty focussed on onboarding with all the AVS that will have us. The vast majority require explicit whitelisting so communication is essential. Many of the teams have been very straightforward to deal with, but there are others who make contact very difficult, or will only accept KYC'd (institutional) capital. I'm not surprised by this, but it's kind of depressing, and it's important we push back against this as much as we can. 

While slashing isn't live (and it looks like it will be some time before it's developed) - the risks to Operators and re-staked capital is pretty small. But it will grow, and we've been having conversations with a few neutral participants who are interested in figuring out how to manage this. The independent development of a risk framework seems important and we hope to be able to share some kind of plan in the near future. 

For now, we're publishing a [table](https://www.notion.so/aestusop/Aestus-AVS-Status-2df3147bbcb044289e1a5fe7e3fb24aa) with an overview of our status and progress with various services. We'd eventually like to be able to share a proper dashboard with live data, but this is some way off. We're also opening a Telegram [channel](https://t.me/AestusOp) for those of you who want to help us coordinate, receive updates or just want to ask us questions.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/DaW_ shares a cool new airdrop checking tool they just built!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cp9ldj/daily_general_discussion_may_11_2024/l3k2hih/)

Today I launched my first project built on Ethereum, this is the best day of my life. The name is [AirdropScan](https://airdropscan.org), it's basically Etherscan for airdrops 😊

What's the airdrop you can't wait for?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Syentist shares some thoughts on a recent thread by hasu</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cp9ldj/daily_general_discussion_may_11_2024/l3joj4j/)

This recent [thread by Hasu](https://twitter.com/hasufl/status/1788944317782114496) has a lot of great points on what Lido has been doing to better align with the ethereum ecosystem this past year. One [specific comment](https://twitter.com/hasufl/status/1788944375160213742) - which encourages Lido to participate in Ethereum roadmap research has received some negative comments from community members which makes me scratch my head 

a) "a player with a financial interest should not take part in Ethereum research and governance". Wut? We literally built a monetary coordination platform, Ethereum, where every single user has a financial incentive. And then we say that if you have a financial incentive, you can't take part in governance? Makes no sense to me

b) "a large player should not be allowed to take part in Ethereum governance". If that view is normalised, that large players - who are by definition successful players in the ecosystem - are discouraged from contributing to ethereum's future, who does that leave? One could make the argument, via the process of elimination, that then we are encouraging unsuccessful players, people who never had the competency nor the courage to spin off their own project or to do it in a successful manner at scale - we instead encourage them to exert their voices. That is instilling a negative selection process which leads to a poorer quality of discussion within the Ethereum ecosystem. Besides that, large players have a wealth of information and experience pertinent to our ecosystem, and it's unwise to exclude their voices.

The key point I think we should be mindful of, is that success isn't a bad word, having financial motives isn't a bad word. *Using your protocol dominance to arm twist other players to get your preferred outcome*, or *using your financial competency to bribe other players to get your preferred outcome*, outcomes which are at odds with the long term good of Ethereum - these are what needs to be focused on. But if a protocol isn't engaging in such behaviour, they certainly should have a seat at the governance table.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll relates the recent auroras to Ethereum</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cq04yl/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2024/l3oo8k7/)

I saw auroras from mainland NZ last night. They weren't exactly spectacular without a long exposure photo to bring out the colours, but it was still pretty incredible. Now before you say this is off-topic, yes, this is related to ETH.

It would seem to be something which doesn't get much attention, but likely since it is a developing thing which may just be noise and not a sign of things to come. However, there is an increasingly alarming trend which started about 150 years ago which has gone exponential in the last 20-30 years. This is the shifting of Earth's magnetic poles. Now this isn't unprecedented. It has actually happened hundreds of times in Earth's history, but it is the first time since we have had advanced technology. Now, if the trend continues and Earth's magnetic poles shift, we could be in for a few hundred years of a reduction of Earth's geomagnetic shield which protects us from the sun's damaging radiation. What this means, and what we have already seen, is that the solar storms which have recently hit Earth are causing more electromagnetic disruption and auroras than storms of their size historically have because our shield is in a weakened state. This can result in localised blackout and infrastructure failures across the world. While a global outage is very unlikely, these localised impacts can be very disruptive to the global economy. This weekend alone dozens more platforms and services have had outages than usual and if any of these services are core infrastructure like banking or credit card services then the economy can grind to a halt.

This is yet another reason why we need Ethereum. We need resilient payment and settlement networks. Otherwise, our ever increasingly unstable world will perpetuate more instability. Especially as we constantly increase our reliance on a larger number of infrastructure systems from roads, to power, internet, AI and beyond. We have a unique chance to solidify one of the flimsy legs which hold up society and replace it with a rigid, decentralised and resilient system.

Edit: If you want to watch a good YouTube video on the ongoing pole shift and what it might mean for us, I highly recommend this one:

YouTube link: <https://youtu.be/ridb9olnqLc>

Watch privately: <https://invidious.fdn.fr/ridb9olnqLc>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheCryptosAndBloods nearly fell for a phishing scam</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cqr9e8/daily_general_discussion_may_13_2024/l3u6uch/)

All these years in crypto and still *just* barely avoided falling for a phishing scam toda

These guys are so incredibly good it's scary - I had my Ledger in my hand to sign the fake transaction and there was *juust* enough friction to drop me out of autopilot and make me think "what is actually going on here". 

I have some liquidity in Reya Network - it's a (legit) new trading optimized L2 with a "shared liquidity" model for all DEXes on the L2 and some major backers. It's launching this week but liquidity deposits for points have been open for some weeks. 

I went and checked my rank on the Leaderboard on the (real) reya.network site, and then I thought "Oh they are launching today - better go check their Twitter to see what's going on"

So I checked their Twitter update, and at the bottom of their (real) thread about the new Session and points etc, there was a final tweet saying something like "check your position on the Trading Leaderboard for Session 1 here" and I thought "Oh, is this a separate leaderboard to the liquidity leaderboard I am on? Better check it out"

[NOTE: the final tweet was of course from a phishing account but I only noticed when I checked later - the language, wording, PFP etc, were all perfect except for a one-character difference in the username]

So I click over to the [FAKE - DO NOT CLICK - "Reya Labs" site]. 

- Cognitive Dissonance 1: I remember thinking "Huh? Reya Labs? I thought their site was Reya Network?" - but I *did nothing* and went ahead
- Cognitive Dissoance 2: The site *looked* like the real site, but it said the current "boost" for early depositors was 5x - but the actual boost is 2.5x I think and has not been 5x for weeks - again, I noticed but thought "oh well, maybe if you do some social media tasks they will bump it up to 5x" - that does actually happen on the real site so it was a reasonable thought. 
- Cognitive Dissonance 3: There was some text, but not a lot of explanation - just something about "connect wallet to find out rank" - again, this is fairly normal so I did connect my wallet
- Cognitive Dissonance 4: It auto-switched me to Blast on Metamask and for the first time I was like "What? This is a new independent L2 and anyway it hasn't fully launched yet - why is it switching me to Blast? What's the connection?" But I still allowed it - we're still running on autopilot at this point. 
- Cognitive Dissonance 5: I *hate* it when dApps force you to sign a transaction just to sign in - it's understandable when you want to *do* something but it annoys me when it is necessary to just view your dashboard or rank - but again, it is unfortunately common, so I wasn't surprised when the popup came up and asked me to sign - but then I noticed that the text wasn't the usual English text string you see in this kind of thing but some very long string of numbers and *finally* got a bit suspicious and thought "I'm not signing something I don't understand especially just to see the Leaderboard and hit "Reject"
- Cognitive Dissonance 6: As soon as I hit "Reject", the popup just came up again with the same transaction to sign, which is behaviour I have never seen before - to keep the popup repeating without me triggering it again, and I actually thought about it for a second, but by this point it had hit my conscious mind that something was "off" and I slowed down, and then the whole thing fell apart of course (with a sigh of relief about how close a call it had been - I'm farming Blast and had quite a lot of personal funds there and the signature may have been useable on L1 mainnet too). 

But the psychology was really interesting to kind of think about how someone  like me who should know a lot better can still get taken in and the brain smooths over all the cognitive dissonance "warning" moments until they piled up enough that I was forced to acknowledge it..

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/coinanon breaks some bleak news and u/eth2353 dives in deeper</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1crk4ou/daily_general_discussion_may_14_2024/l3zpfjv/)

[u/coinanon](https://reddit.com/u/coinanon):

Alexey Pertsev (Tornado Cash dev) is found guilty in the Netherlands and sentenced to 5 years in prison. That seems crazy! Someone please tell me that they proved he did more than just deploy open source code to mainnet. 

<https://www.coindesk.com/policy/2024/05/14/tornado-cash-developer-alexey-pertsev-found-guilty-of-money-laundering/>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1crk4ou/daily_general_discussion_may_14_2024/l3zzfw2/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

Court statement in English available here - <https://www.rechtspraak.nl/Organisatie-en-contact/Organisatie/Rechtbanken/Rechtbank-Oost-Brabant/Nieuws/Paginas/Developer-of-Tornado-Cash-gets-jail-sentence-for-laundering-billions-of-dollars-in-cryptocurrency.aspx>

Well, this is a sad day for crypto, privacy and building permissionless systems in general. Some excerpts:

> Tornado Cash functions in the way the defendant and his cofounders developed Tornado Cash. So the operation is completely their responsibility. If the defendant had wanted to have the possibility to take action against abuse, then he should have built it in. But he did not. Tornado Cash does not pose any barrier for people with criminal assets who want to launder them. That is why the court regards the defendant guilty of the money laundering activities as charged.

> Tornado Cash is not a legitimate tool that has unintentionally been abused by criminals, as the defendant presents. Tornado Cash suits criminal use.
>
> He also behaved lazily when victims of hacks or investigative authorities reported to him, simply stating that he could not do anything for them. He continued the development and exploitation of Tornado Cash with blinders on. He chose to look away from the abuse and did not take any responsibility.
>
> The court follows the prosecutor's demand and sentences the defendant to an imprisonment of 5 years and 4 months.

I don't fully remember the technical details but IIRC the contracts, once deployed, were not upgradable, so him saying "he could not do anything for [victims of hacks or investigative authorities]" was the truth right?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains the evolution of Ethereum's sharding vision</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cscw1a/daily_general_discussion_may_15_2024/l44pd5s/)

u/etheraider has [mentioned sharding yesterday](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1crk4ou/daily_general_discussion_may_14_2024/l40rkhp/) and when it will come. Sharding as a scaling solution been discarded at least 3 years ago. I first wanted to write a short reply but it got longer so I post it here. 

Sharding was the idea, that the Ethereum chain will be split up into different shards with each shard being able execute transactions. The core of the idea was that nodes would only have to validate a subset of all the shards leading to an increase in throughput without pushing home stakers out of the network by increasing resource demand. The problem in this approach is that shards cannot easily communicate with each other which complicates transactions as one would have to make additional transactions to move from one shard to another. Overall it became a rather complex solution. 

With the advent of rollups, people found that this allows for an easier and even more scalable solution. So in about 2021 the original sharding concept was abandoned and scaling through L2s is now considered the way to go. In my understanding there still is the concept of shards, but they were renamed to blobs and they cannot execute transactions. So the nodes do not have to run and validate the transactions which are stored in blobs. Rollups do this. 

With the dencun upgrade we got the first iteration of this scaling plan with EIP-4844 (proto-danksharding). This allowed scaling of the Ethereum ecosystem by about a factor of 50 to 100. Currently the rollups do around 10 times as many transactions than Ethereum does, so they still have room to grow. At the moment, we allow to have 3 blobs per block on average for rollup transaction data, which seems to be like a good value. It increases the load on nodes, but not so much to compromise decentralization. I guess there will be more analysis done in the coming months to see if we can increase the number of blobs a bit. 

The next step in the L2 scaling roadmap is danksharding, which will allow nodes to only store a subset of blobs for a limited time but still make sure that all the data has been published by the rollups using data availability sampling. This will increase the available blob space by at least another factor of 20 without increasing the load on nodes by the same amount. The details of this upgrade is very much being worked on and as far as I understand peerDAS (EIP-7594) is currently the best proposal to achieve that goal. Not sure if peerDAS is already the end goal or just a minimal implementation of data availability sampling.

I am not sure when this is planned to be implemented, but if it will not come in the next Ethereum upgrade. But maybe in the one after that. The good thing is that going from proto danksharding to full danksharding does mostly (or even only) involve changes in the consensus layer, which means there is less coordination necessary between the different teams. 

In addition there will be improvements of the Execution layer as well (like verkle trees, statelessness, history expiry and snarkifying the base chain). Those improvements will allow to increase transaction throughput on mainnet while keeping the resource demand for node operators in check. None of these will 100x increase throughput over night, but together they will massively scale Ethereum in the coming years. If you want to catch up on the current roadmap the bankless podcast from February does an amazing job explaining the different steps: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqVaycBINdc>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 shares a tweet which does a really good job at summarising the state of the crypto market</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cscw1a/daily_general_discussion_may_15_2024/l44mgnq/)

[Tweet by Crypto Cred](https://x.com/CryptoCred/status/1790479429015064738)

>Part of the reason there’s so much disagreement regarding where we are cyclically is because returns have been so unevenly distributed
>
>Additionally, a lot of previous cycle signposts have been absent and/or entirely invalid
>
>The conventional ‘risk curve’ trade of BTC —> ETH —> large caps —> mid caps —> shitters has been unprofitable. Barbell portfolio of BTC + memes has dominated.
>
>ETH/BTC has been remarkably weak, whereas historically it has benefitted from a risk on environment. This has also spilled over into ETH L1+L2 proxy trades being suboptimal. ‘Crypto as a casino’ thesis has been captured by memecoins on SOL (vs previous cycle’s casino was NFTs on ETH).
>
>Memecoins have been consistently leading and rotating from that sector has been costly, whereas memes pumping has historically been an indicator of being late in the cycle.
>
>BTC hasn’t offered a series of previously ‘standard’ bull market pullbacks of 30-40%. This has created a bunch of early sellers/sidelined traders. Also led to proliferation of left-truncated cycle discourse, shorter cycle, super cycle, and other heterodox variants.
>
>There are so many new tokens (amplified by memecoins) that “crypto bull market” no longer means “everything that’s listed goes up for weeks/months” - the rising tide has not lifted all boats and there are very clear winners vs losers (and they’ve broadly stayed the same, no massive rotations e.g. ETH eco/L1+L2 trade been weak relative to SOL for ages, with exceptions).
>
>Taking all this into account, it’s entirely plausible that you have Trader A who rode BTC, SOL, and memes and feels like stuff is hot and needs to cool off, whereas Trader B has barely made any money and feels like stuff hasn’t even picked up yet, and everything in between.
>
>We all have different portfolios, trading styles, time horizons, risk appetite, volatility tolerance, and a bunch of other stuff.
>
>Most of crypto Twitter thinks crypto will go up and to the right over time, we just disagree about the fine print.

Thoughts? This seems to me to be a pretty good summary of this cycle so far. What we have seen at the end of last cycle and in the bear market was that some stuff still pumped while other assets were down only --> micro cycles. Is this cycle the one where things really are (more) uncorrelated, both from stocks etc. but also within the crypto ecosystem?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Set1Less shares a surprise new crypto court case which u/PhiMarHal has more on in another thread</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cscw1a/daily_general_discussion_may_15_2024/l46fklr/)

[u/Set1Less](https://reddit.com/u/Set1Less):

<https://www.justice.gov/usao-sdny/pr/two-brothers-arrested-attacking-ethereum-blockchain-and-stealing-25-million>

> Two Brothers Arrested For Attacking The Ethereum Blockchain And Stealing $25 Million In Cryptocurrency

First MEV related bust.

Wild. Sharing some snippets from the indictment as Im reading

> 90% of ETH validators use MEV boost

These guys basically stole $25m by attacking MEV bots, they ran their own validators and when it was their turn to validate, they meddled and tampered proposed blocks with false signatures

Juicy parts Daddy Gensler may not like

> The conduct described herein relates to the Ethereum Network. Among other things, Ethereum is a decentralized blockchain that is used by millions of people across the world. Since at least 2023, on average, there are more than one million daily transactions on the Ethereum blockchain. **No central actor runs the Ethereum Network. Instead, the Ethereum Network is run through a decentralized network of participants across the world that operate based on a set of rules and protocols.** These rules and protocols are typically executed through "smart contracts"-self- executing computer protocols with if/then conditions-which enable transactions to take place on the Ethereum blockchain without the need for a trusted intermediary. Ether or "ETH" is the native cryptocurrency on the Ethereum Network.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1cscw1a/daily_general_discussion_may_15_2024/l46obdc/)

[u/PhiMarHal](https://reddit.com/u/PhiMarHal):

The MEV situation worries me much more than any price action.

<https://www.justice.gov/opa/media/1351996/dl>

Those guys who outsmarted MEVbots about a year ago, baiting them to extract $25M of their money?

They're now on trial for "conspiracy to commit wire fraud".

Steal billions from small users through automated sandwiches -> A-OK.

Steal millions from extremely wealthy sandwichers through a clever exploit -> straight to jail.

It has been clear for a long time the MEV landscape is filled with well-connected, well-capitalized tradfi individuals looking to extract maximum rent out of our ecosystem. Conspiracy to commit fraud, you say? I would love to have full transparency on every MEV actor out there and their doings. Would not be surprised if it turned out some of them pushed pro MEV sentiment through various means over the years. For the acceptance of robbing users as an unavoidable fact, or even worse, a desirable property, seems absurd at face value.

</details>
