---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-08-23
episode: 75
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/hNzn9v8HEG
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBU_l5di7pQ
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ez4fxr/comment/ljhzqpy/)

[u/hehechibby](https://reddit.com/u/hehechibby)

> Ethereum

[u/SelfmadeMillionaire](https://reddit.com/u/SelfmadeMillionaire)

> $2651

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0438

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1eu9s49/daily_general_discussion_august_17_2024/limjxod/)

*Ether atmosphere,*

*Validators stand to steer,*

*No trust paint to smear.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Choda time!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1exh5g5/comment/ljb1q1g/)

༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ ETH TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/15kisFUD</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1esmtac/daily_general_discussion_august_15_2024/liaylfi/)

ETH price getting you down? Want to channel your inner Reno007? Post about it here in the daily of my new sub [/r/ethwhinance](https://reddit.com/r/Ethwhinance/comments/1et6mmc/daily_general_complaints_august_15_2024/)!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 has the latest on Ethereum consensus timing games</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1esmtac/daily_general_discussion_august_15_2024/li7xbe2/)

If you're a home staker and were wondering why you're missing more head votes than a few years ago, at least part of the blame seems to be on Kiln, one of the largest Ethereum staking node operators.

Toni Wahrstätter (EF) published a new article yesterday:

> On Attestations, Block Propagation, and Timing Games

Kiln seems to have been pushing "timing games" to the very limit, "delaying block proposals to the 3-3.5 second mark within the slot." Blocks are supposed to be published 0 seconds into the slot. Publishing 1-1.5 seconds into the slot is still considered okay for various reasons but 3-3.5 seconds is really pushing it since the attestation deadline is at 4 seconds into the slot. Before that deadline, the block needs to be propagated globally over the P2P network, and fully processed by nodes. That gets quite difficult (read: impossible) when the block is proposed 3.5 seconds into the slot.

Some other quotes from the article, I tried not taking them out of context but still would recommend reading the full article:

> This chart shows the evolution of timing games. We can see that blocks from Kiln validators appear later and later over time.
> 
> the longer one waits, the higher the expected number of missed head votes
> 
> This comes with an impact on the network: for blocks proposed by Kiln proposers, the missed/wrong head vote rate is significantly higher:
> 
> Kiln shows outlier behavior. While most node operators’ attesters correctly vote for the parent block rather than the local block, Kiln’s attesters appear to disregard this norm. Over 10% of Kiln attesters attempt to keep the local block on-chain by voting for it. If such strategies are adopted, they might justify the losses from incorrect head votes if they prevent the local block from being reorged. However, these tactics are generally frowned upon within the Ethereum community: “don’t play with consensus”.

[Full post on ethresear.ch](https://ethresear.ch/t/on-attestations-block-propagation-and-timing-games/20272)

[Tweet](https://x.com/nero_eth/status/1823710182628602264)

So, are we ready to call Kiln a bad actor here? I myself am not quite there yet but I do think they're already way too big of an actor regardless of these timing games, managing almost 5% of all Ethereum validators ([rated.network](https://explorer.rated.network/?network=mainnet&view=nodeOperator&timeWindow=1d&page=1&pageSize=15), may be even higher). I strongly dislike this behavior though, that's why I'm sharing it here with all of you.

I do like a few things that Kiln does, like their in-depth blog posts about client diversity ([1](https://www.kiln.fi/post/ethereum-client-diversity-part-1-consensus-finalization), [2](https://www.kiln.fi/post/ethereum-client-diversity-part-2-execution-layer-diversity), [3](https://www.kiln.fi/post/ethereum-client-diversity-part-3-consensus-layer-diversity)) and their [open-source validator monitoring solution](https://github.com/kilnfi/eth-validator-watcher) that we also use at Serenita.

Still I can't help but think playing these timing games causes unnecessary stress to the network, only resulting in short-term profits.

( For those that don't know the full context - these timing games are played in order to extract a bit more MEV. So as a validator you basically make a selfish decision to make a little bit more profit that hurts the rest of the network because they get a lower reward for the wrong head vote. )

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HSuke reminds us to stay on our toes</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1etgdqq/daily_general_discussion_august_16_2024/lidbjc3/)

Be wary when joining crypto projects from unknown people.

A notable Moon/Donut farmer was a victim of a spear phishing social engineering attack: <https://x.com/ZoomerXBT/status/1823438152394055994>

The attacker convinced the victim to check out the project to see if the victim would be interested in joining the team to create NFTs for it. The executable for the supposed game project turned out to be a Remote Access Tool.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dreth educates us on wallet security</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1etgdqq/daily_general_discussion_august_16_2024/lidnkcl/)

I was going to reply to this in the chain of comments of the case of that moon/donut farmer (which /u/HSuke posted) that was targetted and drained but I will make this as a top level comment for more visibility:

Windows itself is a riskier system to use and was mentioned as an attack vector in the thread, however, it's also fair to say that there are several red flags here from the info i get from this chain of comments and it's that:

- Never use hot wallets for any significant amounts of money
- Never run unknown software (this can happen on any system)
- Be skeptical of crypto jobs which are a significant vector of attack for scammers (esp. gaming, moderator, or unspecified soft-skill based jobs)
- Be skeptical of anything passed to you through telegram, as telegram despite being an excellent piece of software also makes it extremely easy to wipe the chat likely doesn't pursue scams beyond simple bans 
- If you absolutely need to open software or a document, use a virtual machine, this person ran that binary no condom in his machine
- Gaming projects are especially prone to be represented by scammers as they often require installing software, so this should immediately be a red flag
- Treat random messages as scams outright, in any platform, from anyone, making sure to take extra care and question absolutely every single thing the person tells you, often assuming it's false and with intent to scam you. Especially if your wallets are out in the open and public or you're a well known farmer/social media person/community manager or member/have a valuable doxxed wallet or if your email or personal details have been in any data breach.

For data breach related things I suggest checking <https://haveibeenpwned.com> which has several tools to check this which are well known in the privacy community. Also consider using tools and taking measures recommended by <https://privacyguides.org>.

I also wrote an [article](https://dac.ac/blog/improving_your_privacy_security) about this on my website which I posted on here a while ago. I've learned a lot about networking and other things since I wrote this, so some things might be slightly off, but if you wanna check it out feel free. 

More importantly though, I highly recommend _software isolation_, which is the most important measure to take. Minimize your surface area for attack:

- Run unknown and potentially risky-to-use software in virtual machines
- Isolate your crypto activity to a different _CLEAN_ browser (only with your wallet software) or a different clean machine altogether
- Avoid using hot wallets as much as you can

For more technical folk and programmers in this community, or those interested: You should also learn to use smart contract testing software like brownie (python), foundry (rust) or hardhat (javascript) to automate transactions and use hot wallets in a programmatic way, though when learning to use these always use testnets first to try. Learning to use software like this and learning smart contract programming languages like solidity, vyper or others will absolutely help you in navigating the space in a much more careful way.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HauntedJockStrap88 is convinced that ETH's fundamental advantages will play out in time</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1etgdqq/daily_general_discussion_august_16_2024/lienfys/)

Besides “everyone and god hates us”, I’ve yet to see a good reason why the fundamental advantages of ETH won’t play out in price over the next 12-18 months. 

ETH is the only smart contract platform that has the institutional/regulatory green light. 

ETH is inflating minimally/deflating forever since the merge and 4844. (Compare ETH vs SOL) 

ETH is the only smart contract platform that has a record of liveness that is acceptable for global settlement. (Again compare to SOL outages) 

L2 scaling is a wild success and is up only. L2 usage is up only. 

If smartcontracts/blockchain is a transformative technology there is no real competitor to ETH. BTC DOESN’T DO ANYTHING. Sure, it might be a good investment since enough people think it’s neat, but that doesn’t mean it’s in competition with ETH. 

The ONLY reason I see ETH failing is if blockchain itself is rendered useless by some other unforeseen technology. But otherwise the instantaneous settlement, immutability, and resilience of a decentralized smart contract platform like ETH offers enough advantages over the legacy system that it can’t *not* be adopted. And if a decentralized smart contract platform is adopted it will be ETH. 

Regulatory clarity in the US is coming. 
Continued scalability increases are coming. 
Widespread stablecoin payments are coming. 
Institutional adoption has started. 
DEFI use will be up only. 

People are worried over 5 months of bad PA for ETH the asset and I agree it has sucked but narrative follows price- don’t let the bad PA make you think the ETH fundamentals have changed.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/smidge explains why the new EZPZ crypto ETF is actually good for Europe</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1eu9s49/daily_general_discussion_august_17_2024/lij61y5/)

[https://decrypt.co/245173/franklin-templeton-ezpz-crypto-etf](https://decrypt.co/245173/franklin-templeton-ezpz-crypto-etf)

This has been mentioned yesterday, i think the ezpz etf might be very interesting for european users. An etf holding only one asset is prohibited in europe/eu as far as i know, thats why the current etfs are not available to buy.

Maybe someone more knowledgeable can elaborate further, but afaik you need a basket of assets to get an etf approved in europe. Lets hope the minimum is 2!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/696_eth recaps the week for the EVMavericks</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1evtl8k/daily_general_discussion_august_19_2024/liy2xto/)

[EVMavericks Weekly Recap](https://paragraph.xyz/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstorage.googleapis.com%2Fpapyrus_images%2F5e3f4ea5512fda158b49095511c1b274.jpg&w=1920&q=75) (August 12-18)

[Blog & Newsletter on Paragraph](https://paragraph.xyz/@evmavericks/evmavericksweeklyrecap1)

Catch up on a week's worth of, mostly, Discord content: get some inside scoop and the feel of our vibes. For all the details, visit directly our Discord.

1. Some EVMavericks were onboarded to participate in Octant's rounds and help select various projects, thus contributing to public goods indirectly.

2. Our farmers discuss what's hot, what's cold. Orderly (TGE is on 26th), Debrdige, Tari, Hyperliquid.

3. Our quality chat is filled with talks about stocks and gold, what's underrated and why.

4. Degen chat is not so degen nowadays. Discussions revolve  around forms of money and the differences between real money and memes.

5. And from the Twitter land, Batz shows his bullishness on ETH by referencing RatioGang website which is built by our very own InsideTheSimulation.

6. We see a few nice sales as 930.eth picks up these cool looking lions!

7. Our memecoining thread has been the most active. Lots of discussions but notably some juicy alpha including coins and polymarket bets. While don't be fooled that it's all green and rosey, it definitely gets red at times, but here are some calls of the week: 

> \~5x - $r/snoofi by WTF

> \~3x - $pop by etheraider    

> \~ 2-30x - $TrumpFish by 696

Lastly, **your weekly security reminder**: here’s a [few guides](https://imgur.com/a/wallet-security-guides-DSvQrXs)!

> EVMavericks discord has a security channel. You can literally mute everything else but that channel and only get notifications from there.

> Reminder for all the folks: we have a daily-discussion channel in the discord that's open to public and there's a decent amount of activity there!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/MerkleChainsaw brainstorms a possible way to fight MEV and u/cryptOwOcurrency builds off this by drawing parallels to email</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1evtl8k/daily_general_discussion_august_19_2024/liwdb4d/)

[u/MerkleChainsaw](https://reddit.com/u/MerkleChainsaw):

Would it be possible to defeat MEV with no protocol changes with smarter wallets?

1. Validators could choose to flag that they will avoid MEV and randomize transaction order in their block.
2. Their adherence could be observed by third parties and wallet providers to create a list of validators using and not using MEV.
3. Because proposers are known ahead of time, wallets could give users a toggle to transact either on "first available block" or "wait for first available MEV free block". Getting a MEV free validator wouldn't be guaranteed but could be targeted.
4. Assuming a critical mass of validators goes "MEV free" and enough users toggle to attempt MEV free transactions they could see a higher share of fee revenue to make up for lost MEV.

Besides the chicken-and-egg problem here, a problem I see with this idea is that if the "MEV free" validators captured a larger share of DeFi transaction fees this could be offset by regular validators getting a larger share of simple token transactions since their blocks would otherwise be emptier. Also for any really big MEV opportunities it would be worth it for any validator to just take the MEV, exit the pool, and re-enter with a new identity. If we could find solutions to these problems, it feels a lot cleaner to me than some of the currently proposed solutions like builder separation.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1evtl8k/daily_general_discussion_august_19_2024/lixm0ge/)

[u/cryptOwOcurrency](https://reddit.com/u/cryptOwOcurrency):

To me this feels like the email reputation problem all over again.

In the early days of the internet, anybody's computer could directly send an email to an email server and it would get delivered. Then as email became widespread, the concept of spam email arose.

So email service providers (ESPs) started tracking reputation by IP address, which is what they do to this day. Each ESP keeps a small rotation of "clean" IP addresses to send mail from, and they work hard to make sure nobody uses them to send spam so that their IP reputation stays clean. And each ESP keeps a list of blocklists that contain tons of low-reputation IPs, from which they auto delete all incoming emails.

The result is a system where yes, technically speaking you can send an email directly, but it's largely impossible from a residential internet connection since they block the outgoing port (SMTP) to prevent spam, and it's largely impossible from a web host or VPS too because chances are that whatever IP you get, someone else has already sent spam and ruined its email reputation (if the web host doesn't outright block the SMTP port). So it's a technically open system where the only way you can send an email in practice is to hand your email off to an ESP like Gmail or Yahoo or iCloud or specialized "email hosting" products for delivery.

Trust me, email servers suck balls to maintain. It's a lot of writing blocklist maintainers to try to get off their lists - maintainers who only expect emails from email hosting companies. And the software is far less streamlined than web hosting software, since nobody hosts email servers anymore. It's a full time job.

All that is to say, if there's one or more independent parties certifying whether validators are MEV-free, the endgame is that it turns into another whack-a-mole reputation management scheme just like email. And I don't want running a validator to suck balls like running an email server does.

> Also for any really big MEV opportunities it would be worth it for any validator to just take the MEV, exit the pool, and re-enter with a new identity. If we could find solutions to these problems, it feels a lot cleaner to me than some of the currently proposed solutions like builder separation.

You have to track reputation *somehow*. And there are limited ways of doing so. You could track them by IP, which runs into the aforementioned issues and makes "clean" IP addresses expensive. Or you could track the coins themselves, which just means that every ETH on chain has a hidden reputation value, which makes "clean" ETH more expensive.

I believe the answer is "it fundamentally cannot be done in a fair way within the latest production version of the Ethereum protocol".

Edit: Of course, protocol changes like shutterization can help.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog educates us on staking with RISC-V chip architecture</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ewn8dw/daily_general_discussion_august_20_2024/lj2anr4/)

Warning, very geeky hardware topic ahead. 

In the last few weeks I have worked on running Ethereum nodes on RISC-V boards. RISC-V is one of the more modern CPU architectures besides the well known x86 (most PCs) and ARM (Apple and cell phones). RISC-V started being developed around 2010 and got published around 2014. Only in the last few years the basic parts got standardized and the they are still in active development to standardize some of the extensions.  

One big difference is than anyone can design and build CPUs on this standard and many companies actually do. This is in contrast to x86 processors where only 3 companies have a license to actually design/build them: Intel, AMD, VIA Technologies. 
For ARM CPUs anyone who buys a license from ARM Holdings can design and build ARM CPUs but these licenses can be very strict. For example, ARM Holdings is currently trying to force Qualcomm to destroy all ARM based Windows laptops due to a licensing dispute. 
RISC-V is open, which means anyone can design and build processors following this standard without having to pay anyone anything or follow any strict licensing rules. This means this is the most open CPU architecture we have. The disadvantage is that it is all very new and therefore the currently available Processors are not the most powerful ones. But the progress in just the last 5 years is quite amazing. Back then one could only get the most minimal boards which pretty much could only read some inputs do some basic calculations and control an output. There was no support to run any operating system on these boards. Linux support was pretty much non existent. 

Today, we can get boards which can easily run full Linux distributions even Ubuntu supports some boards directly and about every 9 months a new iteration of ever more powerful boards hit the market. The driver for this development is the openness. Companies know, that no one can take their licenses away and this gives them security to develop RISC-V based CPUs. This open competition will probably enable many more people to get access to affordable and powerful enough hardware to run an ethereum node. To get there however, the node clients themselves will have to be optimized for this hardware platform as well. 

That is why another node operator was asking in many discords if anyone else is interested to help in this effort. I obviously jumped on this opportunity and we have been working on it in the last few weeks. We now got Nimbus, Lighthouse and geth running. They can be built with some modifications and run reliably. Some of the modifications have already been pushed to the respective client teams and some more modifications will come in the next weeks. We are working on some other clients as well (grandine, Reth and prysm) but they have some more issues which need further investigation.

At the moment we have 4 different boards to test our stuff on. These are the HiFive Unmatched, the VisionFive 2, the Lichee Pi 4a and the Banana Pi F3. All of these are at most barely powerful enough to actually run a full node. Nevertheless, we managed to fully and reliably sync the sepolia testnet on the Banana Pi (Nimbus/geth) and we even managed to sync mainnet with lighthouse, but only for brief periods of time until it lost sync again and then it was behind the head for about 1-3 hours until it regained sync again. We even overclocked our board which slightly improved the sync reliability, but not by much. Looks like the current iteration of boards is a good basis to test nodes and get the clients ready but we need at least one more iteration to be able to run nodes reliably. 

In parallel, my colleague tries to incorporate as many improvements as necessary into eth-docker so that prospective node operators will have a very convenient way to spin up a node on these boards. It still is a very rocky road ahead, but I am pretty sure that when actually powerfull enough RISC-V boards will hit the market in 1-3 years or so, a good selection of clients will be ready to run on them.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bob-Rossi reminds us of the purpose of EIP-1559</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1ewn8dw/daily_general_discussion_august_20_2024/lj2uzn0/)

It's a little complicated because EIP-1559 served multiple purposes, and the burn achieved multiple goals. You can read all about it in the github of the EIP (it's short, and really digestible - I promise!) --- [EIPs/EIPS/eip-1559.md at master · ethereum/EIPs · GitHub](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1559.md)

The short of it is, the burn was absolutely a stated part of monetary policy, to the point I'd argue it was past 'a nice side effect'. Honestly a fairly elegant solution IMO. And if you remember the narratives around BTC vs ETH at the time of it's launch, issuance/inflation rates were a very hot topic. 

I think where the disconnect came from was people misunderstood that it was an amplifier, not a driver, of price action. Meaning that in the event we saw a period of relatively little crypto demand combined with low fees the burn wouldn't be as impactful. Which we sort of unfortunately saw post-launch. 

>An important aspect of this fee system is that miners only get to keep the priority fee. The base fee is always burned (i.e. it is destroyed by the protocol). This ensures that only ETH can ever be used to pay for transactions on Ethereum, cementing the economic value of ETH within the Ethereum platform and reducing risks associated with miner extractable value (MEV). Additionally, this burn counterbalances Ethereum inflation while still giving the block reward and priority fee to miners. Finally, ensuring the miner of a block does not receive the base fee is important because it removes miner incentive to manipulate the fee in order to extract more fees from users.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll covers the pragmatic approach to privacy which many apathetic people may miss</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1exh5g5/daily_general_discussion_august_21_2024/lj693g9/)

I just thought I'd share a snippet I shared just now in yesterday's daily about why the defeatist attitude to privacy around "oh they have my data anyway" is actually completely missing the point of privacy. It's not about going off the grid, its about reducing your attack surface and if you hold crypto, then reducing your data footprint is not paranoia, it's prudent.

>One of the key things outsiders miss about the privacy community is the concept of the "threat model". Who are you trying to hide your data from? Most people can't hide from 3 letter agencies without hugely inconveniencing their daily life, but that's ok because there are some legal protections to stop some degree of government abuse (for example police need to get warrants to search your home etc.) But if you post all of your life details to social media then police can just buy your data, they don't need to search your home if they can buy info from tech companies. Stalkers and $5 wrench attackers can do the same and hackers have waaaay more places to steal your info from, making you more prone to phishing, burglary and much much more. Basically there are some super simple steps to make your digital footprint soooo much smaller. Things like degoogling, using uBlock origin and Firefox for browsing, avoiding cloud services in favour of physical backups or your own servers and not owning a car made after the mid 2010s which collects and sells location and converstional data ([some car companies reserve the right to sell your sexual data, no I'm not kidding, its right there in their terms and conditions](https://foundation.mozilla.org/en/blog/privacy-nightmare-on-wheels-every-car-brand-reviewed-by-mozilla-including-ford-volkswagen-and-toyota-flunks-privacy-test/)). These things don't take much effort for tech savvy people and it gets 80 – 90% of your data off the marketplace and out of the easy reach of government agencies beyond the most powerful ones which you don't really need to worry about if you're not a terrorist.

</details>
