---
layout: markdown
date: 2024-03-29
episode: 60
guest: Ram Ahluwalia
guest_topic: "[Lumida Wealth](https://www.lumida.com/), a digitally native, SEC registered investment advisor specializing in alternative investments and digital assets"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/s/ijMuhxuBc7
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJDmaFZMHSY
poap_link: https://collectors.poap.xyz/drop/171669
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning trinity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bqhysw/comment/kx2p2ky/)

[u/fatsopiggy](https://reddit.com/u/fatsopiggy)

> Ethereum

[u/2peg2city](https://reddit.com/u/2peg2city)

> $3570

[u/2peg2city](https://reddit.com/u/2peg2city)

> 0.07

[u/bagogel12](https://reddit.com/u/bagogel12)

> 561 days since The Merge

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 89,770 hodlers subscribed (+4)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bpobg6/comment/kx14ejq/)

*Jailed FTX bro,*

*It's six halving in a row,*

*Raise and fall below.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Choda time!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bpobg6/comment/kx0d2q9/)

༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ ETH TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Tricky_Troll</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bour0p/comment/kwwbrx9/)

Is "you don't have enough points" the new "you don't have enough ETH"?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/aaqy explains why they aren't voting to increase the gas limit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bjzmh0/daily_general_discussion_march_21_2024/kvv9es0/)

Hey guys. As a genesis solo validator, I would like to share with you the reasons why I oppose the increase in block size at the present time.

1. It is pointless. We are not going to attract new users or new use cases by simply reducing fees for a very limited time. No one is going to consider using Ethereum because a transaction costs $4 instead of $5. I understand it is annoying to hear the same complaints over high fees over and over again, but those complaints are not going to be tamed with a fee reduction that would anyway last very little. As an example, the last hard fork has indeed reduced fees on L1 more or less on the same scale that a block increase would do, but almost no one noticed.
2. It is not sufficiently tested and could be dangerous, especially for small validators. When reasons for increasing size are cited, reference is usually made to disk size, but other more important factors for small operations are bandwidth, data-rate limits, computational capacity or ram installed. Increasing the block size increases resources and could expose small validators to spam attacks that cause them to lose their turn and thus allow an attacker to steal rewards or MEV from them.
3. It could hurt L2 scaling plans. The last hard fork allowed Ethereum L2s to start competing with more centralized alternative L1s. However, even with 3 blobs per block the tps we are seeing are very low with respect to for example Solana, whose transactions per second are close to 1000. An increase in the number of blobs can be very significant to achieve equivalent capacity. This improvement, in contrast to a limited increase in block size, can indeed attract new users, developers and use cases, since the chosen L2 could offer the same tps as L1 alternatives, but with the added security provided by the Ethereum network, as well as compatibility with existing tools and ease of development. In short: the space we would lose by increasing the block size in a rush might be needed in the future to increase blob capacity.

Therefore, I think this is not the right time to increase the block size. I think we should wait until Ethereum L2s have reached a point where they can compete with alternative L1s in terms of capacity and the cases where complex blocks can cause small validators to miss blocks have been thoroughly tested and eliminated.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/\_WebOfTrust is grateful for this amazing community</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bmdq2z/daily_general_discussion_march_24_2024/kwe3c59/)

I recently read Polynya's latest blog, which reminded me of how grateful I am to be a part of this group. X is nothing but a shitshow; Farcaster looks promising, but the conversation is fragmented. The only place where the comment-to-quality ratio is high is here, with a wholesome bunch of strangers discussing the whole ecosystem and offering help without prejudice. It's a rare find in the current market, especially now that meme mania seems to be leading the charge.

Even beyond this group, some fellow members have offered their guidance and support. MinimalGravitas, my dude, if it weren't for your kind words, I would have left the DAO in '22. Do you know, a fellow member even offered me their NUC, its up and running. Every time I look at it, I forget the gloom I see elsewhere, it gives me hope. This motivation to run a node, even if it's non-staking, was inspired by Nixo's tweet. Not directly, but Logris has taught me valuable lessons through his well-explained comments. Whether on vacation or gone camping, no worries, Tricky got you covered with doots when you're back. Benido and Hanni have written extensively on different topics, from DAO to LST to client diversity. And the list goes on... all that without an expectation of any financial return.

Sometime we take things for granted or we are unaware of impact of our action but not today, today I want to show my gratitude and thank you all for contributing to this forum. Even if I have nothing to say, I ready the daily and learn something from it and I am greatful for that.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 does some L2 education and FUD busting</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bksave/daily_general_discussion_march_22_2024/kw3ngor/)

L2beat.com does an amazing job at explaining the trade-offs in detail. L2s are definitely not web2 technology. In fact, it's so novel that they are still being built, that's why they have some amount of training wheels and safety guards at the moment.

The first thing to observe is that you can give up decentralization for an L2 as long as some protections are guaranteed to the user programmatically. It's OK for a rollup operator to run the rollup themselves, it may even be permissioned, it may even be censored. And that's OK as long as you can always escape hatch with your assets to the L1. And the analogy I would use here is that this is the exact same thing that happens with private businesses. A restaurant doesn't have to serve you, they may reserve the right to not have you as a customer sometimes for trivialities like dress-code. A web forum may ban you. And that's fine because you can go anywhere else. If you are unhappy with the rollup you get your stuff and go somewhere else. Your fundamental rights are preserved in the public space, the L1 is the public space. And the L1 is permissionless and censorship-resistant so you can be sure there will be somewhere else to go.

Here is an example of how this works in Arbitrum: <https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/arbitrum#risk-analysis>

> Sequencer failure
> Self sequence
> 
> In the event of a sequencer failure, users can force transactions to be included in the project’s chain by sending them to L1. There is a 1d delay on this operation.
> Proposer failure
> Self propose
> 
> Anyone can become a Proposer after 6d 8h of inactivity from the currently whitelisted Proposers.

Even if Arbitrum went for the ultimate censorship, turning off their rollup, you would be able to use the L1 and escape hatch.

Bitcoin maxis have been parroting a never ending stream of FUD arguments for years, systematically being proven wrong and when that happens instead of recognizing their mistake they move to new FUD arguments. Facts be damned. I would recommend updating your bayesian priors taking their track-record into account.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/OkDragonfruit1929 lists the few ways which may result in failure for Ethereum</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bksave/daily_general_discussion_march_22_2024/kw43pjp/)

I am dealing with internalizing the hate toward Ethereum, but am also trying to prevent myself being blinded by my own bias.

One trap that people often fall into is refusing to acknowledge any scenario where their beliefs, convictions, or ideals could ever be "wrong".

As a result, I am compiling a list of things which would indicate to me that I was wrong about Ethereum. That Ethereum was a failed experiment doomed due to irreparable flaws. Of the 4 listed here, any one of the first 3 coming true I think would be enough for me to concede the "death of ETH".

1. Unresolvable security vulnerabilities causing finanacial losses, undermining trust in Ethereum's security model. This could include supermajority bugs causing a chain split, or repeated successful attacks against the network.
2. If Ethereum's development or governance becomes heavily centralized, contradicting its ethos of decentralization.
3. A breakdown in the Ethereum community, whether due to internal conflicts, disillusionment with the project's direction, or a mass migration to other projects, could severely impact the development and support of the platform.
4. To a lessor extent, I would also concede that regulatory actions against Ethereum specifically, or decentralized platforms in general, could be a huge blow to ethereum's vision as the settlement layer for the world's finance and uninteruptable web3. I say this would prove ethereum's "failure" in my mind to a lessor extent than the other scenarios I listed here, because even if the governments of the world put aside their differences to all agree to attack ethereum or restrict it, ethereum would never truly die. It would simply go underground. It would be vastly less profitable, but it would not disappear entirely.

For myself, and hopefully some of you here who are deeply invested in Ethereum's success, these scenarios would likely need to be demonstrable, systemic, and irreparable to convince us that Ethereum was a failed experiment.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hereimalive shares Vitalik's comments on getting Ethereum ready for real world adoption</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bll5sr/daily_general_discussion_march_23_2024/kw6vsft/)

What you think about Vitalik 5 year time-frame for Ethereum to prove its ready for mainstream real world adoption?

<https://thedefiant.io/vitalik-says-ethereum-must-achieve-mainstream-adoption-within-five-years>

Despite the cc subreddit pushing a negative narrative, it seems like Vitalik is actually bullish.

> "I expect Ethereum to be a very leading player in helping to make stablecoin accessible to people in a way that actually is open, actually is decentralized, and actually doesn’t require trusting fragile third-parties.”

Also, improvements to be able to run a node (not sure if validators but probably) without the need for a lot of storage space. zk-SNARKs would help us move from our staking rigs to just a phone/very light processing on a computer.

> “With Verkle Trees, as a node, you would not have to store the state locally. And with EIP-4444: History Expiry, you would not have to store most of the history locally,” Buterin said. “The amount of data that you would need to be a node would decrease from multiple terabytes to... being able to run a node in RAM.”
> 
> “In the long term, running a node will feel like… a few very simple computations that will be very easy to do as a background process on any computer, maybe even a phone, even inside a browser,” Buterin said. “There’s a pre-existing technology roadmap to get to that point.”

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/strawdar explains why ETH staking is in 32 ETH chunks</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bll5sr/daily_general_discussion_march_23_2024/kw9opzu/)

With EIP-7251/MaxEB coming I was curious why the beacon chain did not launch this way in the first place. It has an interesting backstory.

From the EIP itself:

> The limit on the MAX_EFFECTIVE_BALANCE is technical debt from the original sharding design, in which subcommittees (not the attesting committee but the committee calculated in is_aggregator) needed to be majority honest. As a result, keeping the weights of subcommittee members approximately equal reduced the risk of a single large validator containing too much influence. Under the current design, these subcommittees are only used for attestation aggregation, and thus only have a 1/N honesty assumption.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/asdafari12 questions the magnitude of the benefit of increasing maximum validator balances while u/interweaver delivers the answer</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bmdq2z/daily_general_discussion_march_24_2024/kwbl7rg/)

[u/asdafari12](https://reddit.com/u/asdafari12):

> maxeb is now planned for the next hard fork. 
This will remove the 32e max limit for validators, **greatly reducing bandwidth consumption** for stakers. - eric.eth
https://twitter.com/econoar/status/1770836409848332554

Will maxeb really reduce bandwidth **greatly**? Only if the whales with thousands of validators actually consolidate to big validators instead of many small ones, something that is yet to be seen. You could argue that they don't want to have 3200 ETH validators as the impact of a bug would be 100x bigger. It would lower Ethereum protocol risk though so should be in their best interest. 

It seems unlikely to me that we will lower the number of validators by 50-75%, which is what I would consider greatly reducing consumption. More likely we will drop by some 10-30%, so not really making a big difference in terms of bandwidth.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bmdq2z/daily_general_discussion_march_24_2024/kwblh80/)

[u/interweaver](https://reddit.com/u/interweaver):

This is almost certainly referring to attestation subnets.

For each validator a solo staker has (up to 64), they have to subscribe to a new attestation subnet, with all the gossip and increased traffic that causes.

If that solo staker consolidates their validators under maxEB, they could go back down to a single attestation subnet, reducing bandwidth usage significantly.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/FrenktheTank shares the great combo of Paul Brody and the EEA</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bn6io6/daily_general_discussion_march_25_2024/kwgb404/)

On my LinkedIn feed I saw that Paul Brody just got appointed as Chairman of the Ethereum Enterprise Alliance. Curious as to what his plans are to speed up enterprise adopotion.


Source: <https://www.linkedin.com/posts/pbrody_enterprise-ethereum-alliance-announces-new-activity-7175838502155079680-idgW>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/dentonnn is grateful for this community</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bo0lmo/daily_general_discussion_march_26_2024/kwmd1kd/)

Just wanted to amplify u/\_WebOfTrust post from 2 days ago... what an awesome community this is. I am a relatively late comer into the community. 

Thank you all for consistency sharing your knowledge with internet anons like me. I've learnt more from this sub than any other place on the internet. I literally got a job offer because I dove into MEV because of the daily doots posts about it consistently throughout the past few years (I didn't take the offer in the end). 

Your selfless sharing has consequences, and I my career trajectory is one of them. 

Other than that this year has been transformative for me career-wise (got back in the crypto industry after a stint in fintech) and personally as an artist (did my first solo exhibition yay!). Going to ETH Denver for the first time and meeting u/jtnichol and other folk was the most wholesome experience I've had in a long long time. 

I work on consumer side of crypto, specifically in games and 99% of the ppl are talking about the casino/degen aspect of crypto, I think they are firmly in the camp of "it's just how it is" , and perfectly captures what polyna's sentiment that 

"this evil in crypto is banal and normalized. This has become the identity of crypto - sure, some useful stuff, but mostly just infested with scams and absolute degeneracy."

Despite the mis-aligned incentives, greed, grift in the space, I don't see any other system that can even attempt to fix the problems we face at scale. I don't know what the answer is, but I believe it starts with places like ethfinance, that can influence the culture of the ecosystem.  

I also finally got my EVM today yay.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/dataalways investigates client diversity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bo0lmo/daily_general_discussion_march_26_2024/kwp0jmb/)

It's not a topic I look at much, or one that I plan to spend much more time on, but I spent my morning trying to fill in some knowledge gaps about execution layer clients this morning. Most of you guys rely on supermajority.info, but obviously there are some unknowns since not all proposer sets have publicly stated their client usage (Binance, Kraken, OKX, Bitcoin Suisse, etc.).

The idea is that even though most blocks are built through PBS, every proposer still has a small share of locally built blocks (min-bid reversions, network latency delaying payloads from relays, local blocks being more valuable than PBS if there isn't much MEV during the block, etc.) and for those subsets of blocks we can look at the extra\_data encoded on-chain to tag what clients proposers are using.

Part of the issue with this methodology is that besu and erigon don't actually embed extra\_data so the field is blank, and at the same time there are some MEV builders who try to stay anonymous and don't embed data, so we can only cleanly tag geth and Nethermind, and then we need to check vs off-chain MEV data to see if the empty data blocks are from anonymous MEV builders or from one of besu/erigon.

On top of that, there's occasionally been MEV builders using the Nethermind tag that briefly crop up. I think this is just from misconfigurations because they go away pretty quick, but it adds a bit of noise to the data. Basically the methodology is a bit of a mess.

As a quick summary:

* Binance is 100% geth.
* Kraken seems to use multiple execution clients but tagging what share is kind of hard. Could be 1/3, 1/3, 1/3 or maybe 1/2 geth, 1/4 nethermind, 1/4 besu or erigon.
* OKX is majority geth. They seem to use a bit of Nethermind (and maybe a little bit of besu/erigon), but the counts are really low. OKX is a pretty reliable proposer, so they don't have many local blocks.
* Bitcoin Suisse is 100% geth.

The data is here for anyone that wants a peak:

[https://hackmd.io/@dataalways/execution-layer-diversity](https://hackmd.io/@dataalways/execution-layer-diversity)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/not-ngmi rounds up all of the many pieces of ETF news from the day</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bour0p/daily_general_discussion_march_27_2024/kwuzig1/)

The [CFTC refers to ETH as a commodity in their KuCoin complaint.](https://x.com/jchervinsky/status/1772666739995595007)


On the same day, [courts side with SEC on the staking issue in Coinbase case.](https://x.com/tier10k/status/1772984650031312986) 


Meanwhile, [Fidelity files S-1 form for spot Ethereum ETF with staking included.](https://x.com/watcherguru/status/1772999593577390172)


Within 24hrs, Larry Fink says on Fox News that if ETH were designated as a security, [that wouldn’t be deleterious to the approval of an ETF.](https://x.com/chadsteingraber/status/1773066858729463862) 


Perhaps spot ETH is a commodity (CFTC regulated), but staked ETH is a security (SEC regulated). 


**Prediction: Staked ETH ETF approved before spot ETH ETF.**

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pbrody is looking to catch up with EthFinanciers like YOU this year!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/1bo0lmo/daily_general_discussion_march_26_2024/kwn693q/)

Where are people going to be the next few weeks?  Is there some way to share where we will be?

I’m headed to:

- Bucharest - March 30/31 - EthBucharest/Romania
- London - April 16-18, EY Blockchain Summit
- Dubai - April 19,20 —> Token 2049
- Dubai - April 20th —> How To DAO
- Brussels - July 8-12 - EthCC
- New York - Sept 30-Oct 2 - Messari MainNet
- Bangkok - November 11-16 - DevCon

Who am I going to see where?

</details>
