---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-10-17
episode: 128
guest: Noah Bortnick
guest_topic: "[Carpathian Capital](https://www.carpathiancrypto.xyz/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/enfns9m3og
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o8shbl/comment/njx8ckc/)

[u/oldskool47](https://reddit.com/u/oldskool47)

> Ethereum is the goat chain

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $3,915.78 is the price

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.03589 is the ratio


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o2s0fu/comment/niuizla/)

*An armageddon,*

*Leveraged positions gone,*

*Are you winning son?*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/PlusOneRun</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o2s0fu/daily_general_discussion_october_10_2025/niveqyu/)

BLESS ME ALMIGHTY CRAB FOR I HAVE SINNED.

FOR TOO LONG I HAVE WORSHIPED THE BULL, A FALSE IDOL, ENTERTAINING ILLUSIONS OF MOON.

ETERNAL IS OUR EASTWARD JOURNEY.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/RandomZileanMain did a write up on recent TradFi adoption</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o1xahl/daily_general_discussion_october_09_2025/nikzka3/)

Did some data analysis and wrote a piece on recent TradFi adoption if anybody interested:

[Link](https://dewip979.substack.com/p/tokenisation-of-assets-the-convergence) 

Couple takeaways :

- Stablecoin market now over $300Bn in value or around 10% of physical US dollars.
- Institutions getting involved in tokenised deposits / Stablecoins, e.g. just today Citi Ventures making strategic investment in BVNK 
- Tokenised Stocks growing massively in last 30 days of +190%.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth shares the post-mortem of the Kiln security incident</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o1xahl/daily_general_discussion_october_09_2025/nil7uax/)

<https://www.kiln.fi/post/re-enablement-of-kiln-services-and-security-incident-information>

Kiln postmortem of the security incident.

>  The malicious transaction changed the withdrawal authority of the Solana stakes, only if the existing withdrawal authority of the stake account provided in the POST call held stake balances above 150k SOL.

Leaked GitHub Credentials/Token led to exfiltration of backend API keys which led to funds stolen for one Kiln client. 

This rightfully forced them to rotate all keys out of rightful security concerns.

I'd feel bad about the employee that leaked the API key but I'm sure he tried to vibe code at this point lol

And then also, the issue was not on Ethereum as a chain, but on the cloud infrastructure of Kiln being compromised. 

Moral of the story: use permissionless staking.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/No-Scratch3795 shares their experience with normies and crypto</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o2s0fu/daily_general_discussion_october_10_2025/nisugjf/)

I would like to write something about mass adoption.

I asked a few people at my company about cryptocurrencies. The answers were more than sobering. 95% of those surveyed are not familiar with ETH.

However, 70-80% have at least heard of BTC, BUT (I estimate) 99% have no idea how crypto works.

People are afraid of self-custody, are afraid or don't know how to register on an exchange (note: people have no problem with banks, but as soon as the word “exchange” comes up, they become uncertain).

They don't know what a wallet is, and when it comes to word paraphrase, even the last ones decide not to buy. (Because it's too complicated)

The worst thing is that even though crypto has demonstrably risen so much and the forecasts are good, very few of the people I surveyed want to invest in crypto because they have no confidence in the asset.

WHY? Yes, there are countless press articles from the past about fraud, pyramid schemes, and crime. And that's exactly what stuck in everyone's minds.

In addition, there are no educational initiatives on how to deal with cryptocurrencies, how to acquire them, etc. You have to teach yourself everything, and most people are not willing or even able to do so.

I think all the crypto foundations that exist and have a lot of money should use it to promote and educate people about crypto. Otherwise, mass adoption will not happen anytime soon.

And the entire user environment needs to be made much, much simpler.

I know everyone here in the sub says, “It's easy,” but honestly, the average consumer actually finds it difficult and complicated.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptOwOcurrency explains why its important to have a slow validator entry queue and u/eth2353 explains why there hasn't been any official push to changing the entry and exit times</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o1xahl/daily_general_discussion_october_09_2025/nilt6yy/)

[u/cryptOwOcurrency](https://reddit.com/u/cryptOwOcurrency):

If we set the speed too high, the weak subjectivity window shrinks.

<https://ethereum.org/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/weak-subjectivity/>

<https://blog.ethereum.org/2014/11/25/proof-stake-learned-love-weak-subjectivity>

The smaller the weak subjectivity window, the less time a validator can be offline without potentially needing to rely on human intervention to catch back up with the canonical chain.

The extreme of this is Solana, where when there’s a chain issue, everyone needs to come together in a discord channel and agree on a shared checkpoint to “reboot“ the chain from. 

It’s all trade-offs.

I’ll just add that it doesn’t make sense to have a different rate limit for when the queue is small versus when the queue is large, because security properties are proportional to the fastest rate that can ever occur.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o2s0fu/daily_general_discussion_october_10_2025/nirr24y/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

The churn rate was limited on purpose to 8 validators/epoch (=256ETH) back in the ~~Shapella~~ Deneb network upgrade ([EIP-7514](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7514)) to slow down the rate of new validators joining the network. The original design allowed for faster churn rates (both entry and exit) at higher validator counts.

Why was this change made? Well, back then core devs were worried about the stability of the network at higher validator counts (2M+). Since then a lot of improvements have landed so I presume network stability is no longer the primary concern.

I think today it's just a question of no one seeing a good reason to allow for a faster churn rate. We don't need more validators on the network, and at least I personally don't mind slow exits either. Becoming an Ethereum validator was always designed to be a long term commitment, why fret over a few weeks?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz claims it's not a pep-talk, but it actually is just a really good pep talk</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o3mwcl/daily_general_discussion_october_11_2025/nix49p1/)

October 10 was a bloodbath, that's the only way to describe it. 

Like a lot of other people, I thought about it all night, and here's what I want to tell you: 

Don't be deterred. Don't give up. But if what happened yesterday made you want to fold, your strategy might need adjustment. If you really believe Ethereum is an inferior technology that will eventually fail, then I encourage you to sell what you hold gracefully and move to a more sound investment.

But if you believe that Ethereum is a wise long term investment and you recognize October 10 as a political and strategic move by market makers, then I need you to be smarter than them.  Keep some lowball orders open all the time. Keep some stables on reserve all the time. Cash out a little when you feel giddy about the price. 

The truth is, I don't give a shit about markets, but I do care about decentralizing the technology, and that means empowering a lot of diverse individuals to build and maintain market positions and participate with the network in lots of ways (making transitions, self custody, running nodes, staking, engaging in community, etc.)

The politicians and market makers don't give one flying fuck about you. They are the enemy. They orchestrate these events to shake cheap coins from the tree. They'll even dump hard into a crash so they can amplify it. I think you know why... They are greedy and manipulative and hell bent on making more money at any cost - even the cost of your well-being and sanity. Make no mistake, crashes are a primary tool that industry uses to consolidate power and control. In a thriving and unregulated market, market makers will shake tf out of trees to get you to give up your position so they can be stronger.

I'm telling you this so you can stop caving to their will, so you can be a strong formidable opponent instead of a scared retail investor. You do not have to be weak, and you do not have to be scared because you know what your opponent is doing and they absolutely do not hold your best interest.

It's not a pep talk, and I'm not telling you to have diamond hands. I'm saying that I believe that the ultimate success of this technology is built on deep decentralization and that means educating the people I care about on the tactics of those who would piss on us for their own benefit. 

You are stronger than you think you are.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Moschus11 shares a tale of caution about using leverage</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o5ascn/daily_general_discussion_october_13_2025/nj8upzo/)

[Yesterday I somewhat smugly shared my thoughts](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o4gfa7/comment/nj5idhh/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button) on how to survive this market.. especially with the upcoming weeks, which might get crazy.

Today, I want to double down on why you should never ever use leverage, full stop, in a market as volatile as crypto. And I will do it by sharing my own experience.

So, I was always more of a holder than a trader. But back in 2017–2018, MakerDAO was shiny and new.. the first time you could use leverage decentrally, fully non-custodially, on-chain. I got excited by the concept and wanted to try it out.. but of course, I told myself I would play it ultra-safe.

Ether had just done a wild 10x run in autumn 2017, all the way up to $1,400 per ETH. Then the market crashed 70%, recovered a bit, and fell again to around $400 in the summer of 2018. With prices down 70% from the top and six to seven months into a bear market, everyone figured this must be the double bottom. That’s when I told myself, let’s go.. and I opened a MakerDAO position with what I thought was a huge safety margin. I would have been fine with another 60% drop. Liquidation would only happen around $150 per ETH.

But no. ETH dropped another 50% to around $200. That’s when I decided to double down.. I mean, come on, down another 50% from where I entered with leverage, now 85% from the top. The market had to turn, right?

Wrong again. In November 2018 it fell another 50%. I would have survived if ETH had stayed above $100. I didn’t want to deploy more capital, so I just let the position ride, hoping I would get lucky and avoid liquidation around $80. Wrong again. ETH flushed to the low low of $80.. and I got liquidated.

Over the next six months the market climbed back to $300 (by then I was done with leverage for good). But just for the record, before the 2020 bull run even began, ETH dipped below $100 twice more.

Now, that was a time when things were probably simpler. Today we have decentralized perpetual platforms with massive liquidity, layered on top of a political and regulatory environment that seems to have no issue with front-running, insider trading, probably even being part of the game itself.

So again.. why would anyone in their right mind use leverage in this market?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dr_Lambo_McMoontard shares his 8 year journey with us</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o66lf9/daily_general_discussion_october_14_2025/njgrs4o/)

I'm coming up on my 8 year ETH anniversary in about a week. First buy was on CB for 2k - I got something like 6.7 ETH for that. It wasn't my last buy and I've managed to hold into 97% of everything over the years (I lost some on EtherDelta buying dumb shit in 2018).    
    
It is crazy how much this space has changed since those days. Some for the worse, most for the better.    
    
To celebrate, I put together my first validator recently and will get it up and running when the time seems right. I don't want want to round trip my bags again but I'm not selling at these prices. Besides, my future will be fine even if I lost it all so I might as well just 'stake and stack' as we used to say. Perhaps one day we really will get to 10k. And if not, I still did great and have made peace with that.   
    
There's no real point in this message other than sharing the journey with fellow ETHerians who will appreciate it for what it is. I'm excited to lend just a little extra compute to the network and I'm glad I'm doing it as a solo validator.    
    
Try to keep your spirits up and adapt to these conditions in whatever way serves you and your family best. And remember: money isn't everything.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog keeps us in the loop with Fusaka on testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o66lf9/daily_general_discussion_october_14_2025/njevuq4/)

Sepolia testnet just got its Fusaka upgrade. Everything seems to have worked fine and we are finalising. Participation seems to have dropped by 10-20%, which indicates that some teams forgot to update their clients (as usual on testnets) but they will upgrade them pretty soon I guess. Seems to be mostly Obol, SSV and Erigon missing blocks.

Yesterday, the Holesky testnet also had its BPO2 fork, where the number of Blobs got increased to 14/21 (target/maximum). This also went through without a hitch. Currently on mainnet we have a blob target/maximum of 6/9. Looks like we are one step closer to mainnet upgrade in December (probably) and a good increase of blob space a few weeks afterwards. Ethereum is scaling.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth asks a good question about Ethereum's ZKvm future and u/haurog and u/sm3gh34d share their thoughts</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o724gy/daily_general_discussion_october_15_2025/njm4qsn/)

[u/rhythm_of_eth](https://reddit.com/u/rhythm_of_eth):

Question on zkVM based on recent Justin Drake posts on X

<https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/1978435449489158312>

What happens if Ethereum swaps to proof generation + proof validation structure, when it comes to incentives for decentralization?

It feels like this would take the block building centralization issues we currently face and apply them to the prover pool, which will be significantly smaller than our current re-execution based validator pool.

In terms of incentives, unless protocol rewards continue to compensate attesters/proposers and don’t over-tilt to provers, it should be okay, but I have the feeling this won't be the case. 

My gut feeling is that provers will absorb most of the protocol rewards on consensus (and rightfully so, as verification will become very lightweight) but the barrier of entry to run a prover setup will be too high for it not to become a centralization vector

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o724gy/daily_general_discussion_october_15_2025/njmct0x/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

I do not see it the same as you. As far as I understand, there are a few different jobs that need to be done in the future.

There is the block building, done by sophisticated actors trying to build the best block. Not too different from now. Then there is block proposing, which is done by validators, same as now. After the block is proposed it needs to be proven. In my understanding, provers have until the next slot to prove it. And then as a last step comes the validation of the proof and attestation to the proposed block. I do not see the incentive structure changing drastically. The validators are the ones which have their assets on the line to attest to blocks and to get a the monopoly on proposing the block. That is why the handful of block builders bribe validators to the max to get their blocks proposed. As long as there is some competition this works and will in the future. For the provers it is similar. There will most probably be a handful of actors doing the proving and competing amongst each other to get their proof in. 

I have not seen anything about how the provers will get compensated exactly, but purely from the proof generation cost they will not get a lot. According to ethproofs.org it currently costs on average $0.1 to create a proof. And there still will be a lot of improvements (i.e. cost reductions) until we get it on mainnet. Being able to run the proof generation on a handful of consumer GPUs is important to be able to participate. Not everyone will have them at home, but might be able to rent them from the many p2p GPU marketplaces, which interestingly are much cheaper than anything you can get from the hyperscalers.

So, in my view we are on a good path for zk provers not affecting the decentralization of the network in any meaningful way. There also already are prover market for zk rollups which, I guess, are a good playground to look at different incentive structures to get things resilient for mainnet. If you are interested there is a ZK podcast about prover markets. They first talk about the zk prover space in general, before going into the specific company: <https://zeroknowledge.fm/podcast/355/>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o724gy/daily_general_discussion_october_15_2025/njmlsxa/)

[u/sm3gh34d](https://reddit.com/u/sm3gh34d):

Your centralization concerns are shared by some core devs also. Haurog gives a good explanation of the best case scenario, but there are a lot of unknowns regarding proving incentives, centralization and prover client diversity.

It is easy to imagine that there will be a small cadre of provers running the cheapest configuration possible. Similar to how most blocks today are built by only a few block builders (beaver, titan,..). Work that is really hard, expensive or operationally complex tends to favor optimizing down to a very few players.

There are likely to be real client diversity issues when there is a significant cost associated with proving execution. The incentive is to minimize cost and use the fastest/cheapest client.

I am heads down working on a besu zkvm guest program and am keeping an open mind, but I am sympathetic to a lot of the misgivings and concerns.

It is still really early. A lot of details are TBD including incentives, actual proving costs, etc. At this point it is still a 'wayfinding exercise' and a lot of devs are taking a wait and see approach.

</details>
