---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-07-25
episode: 118
guest: Marco Mirabella
guest_topic: "[Ensuro](https://ensuro.co)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/68GQJfWtCv
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m8qf62/comment/n518of3/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/imaybeslow](https://reddit.com/u/imaybeslow)

> $3,631

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> 0.031

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m7vgcf/comment/n4zcwf2/)

*Tricky recover,*

*On the mend to discover,*

*Pump is not over.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/laninsterJr</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m8qf62/comment/n51kzze/)

Digital pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ElEterElote shares their thoughts on the Coinbase announcement</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m1yraq/daily_general_discussion_july_17_2025/n3mvhp3/)

Listened to the Coinbase announcement.

At first glance I was reminded of 2017-18 era ConsenSys. The company threw an entire pot of spaghetti at the wall to see what would stick. They had Ujo for music, Viant for supply chain, Cellarius for collaborative storytelling, uPort and others for identity, Civil for news, AirSwap for dex, SingularityTV for media production, and more. What eventually stuck? Metamask and Aztec (which was incubated at ConsenSys if memory serves). Basically everything else evaporated. Were they too early? Maybe, what do I know? All I know is that the majority of their projects failed.

In the Base announcement, creatives and developers described the work they were doing and how it was all enabled by Base. It was awkward and I found myself asking what people in the audience, most of whom were Coinbase employees, must have been thinking. Monetized social media likes? 'is this what we've been building?' Token curated registries that purport democratization but in reality reinforce oligarchy through more tokens = more votes? Is this... good for society? Forget if we actually need this, we don't, but do we event want this? In the last few years we have seen social media take a dark turn; people have discovered that if they can't create or inform, they can become infamous through negativity; people don't care if they're infamous as long as they're famous.

Maybe I'm out of touch, maybe I'm cynical, but I got into this space to disintermediate Uber, not to enrich Coinbase off Andrew Taint posts. The immediate monetization of likes and shares may start off well and good but I am concerned that this is just another medium that will be captured. I see it like this: in the early internet, and in the early crypto space, we had nerds, weirdos, libertarians, techno-optimists, and generally quality information. Today, the popular, rich, and beautiful dominate the internet, promoting swirls of disinformation, and algorithms built by the best and brightest see increasing the share of our waking lives we spend (trapped) inside of them as a profit opportunity, consequences be damned. What used to be a wormhole of information and experience has become a shopping mall in a prison for dopamine addicts (i'm being dramatic i know).

I don't trust a company like Coinbase, beholden to stockholder interests at the core, to usher in a phase of decentralization on the internet or even just social media as they claim they will. I'm not even confident that their vision will even take off considering the friction of getting people to swap apps and payment methods; 1% cashback on USDC purchases requires a user to open a cex account > upload identity docs > set up 2FA > connect to a bank account > deposit funds > figure out how to send funds to a merchant... vs just using their credit card which likely pays at least 1% or more in cashback or points. Getting people to swap messaging apps is even more difficult as a messaging network is only useful if you have people to message on it. It seems more likely that established messaging apps will build in these features as opposed to new messaging apps with the features taking market share. Most people just aren't going to make the switch.

Overall I wasn't expecting anything profound so I'm not disappointed. In terms of our bags I suppose any increase in activity on chain is good for them, but as far as adding value to society I don't know that this is the way.

Thank you for coming to my ted talk.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/etherbie gives thanks for the EthFinance x Ethereum subreddit merge to help provide more signal for newcomers</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m2tibc/daily_general_discussion_july_18_2025/n3rure8/)

I'm extremely grateful to the entire EthFinance and Ethereum mod teams for facilitating the merge of the two subreddits in preparation for this next run. I can’t even imagine the sheer volume of noise that beginners and curious newcomers would’ve had to wade through without it. Love you all — thank you for making this space better for everyone. ❤️

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog gives us an update on Aztec's private rollup testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m2tibc/daily_general_discussion_july_18_2025/n3sh09y/)

I have not done any updates on aztec. As a reminder 2.5 months ago they started the testnet of their privacy preserving rollup with permissionless validator signup. There has been an onslaught of people wanting to become node runners and validators as well. Validator signup is limited to 5 per day for the permissionless route. There are some validator slots through a proof of humanity approach which they are testing at the moment and there was also validator slots for selected members of the discord group. 

At the moment there are around 14k aztec nodes running. It peaked at close to 20k nodes a few weeks ago. Most of them are running out of cheap datacenters. For a comparison, I assume that Ethereum has somewhere between 10k to 30k nodes. Different sources have wildly different numbers.

Actual validators for aztec just broke 1k last week or so. Currently there are 1049 validators active. These are more validators than Solana has with 998 validators. Also the solana numbers have been down only for over 2 years, whereas aztec is up only. They main reason many people are running nodes on Aztec is that there might be an airdrop in the future, even though it is constantly denied by the team. Now, that some alt L1 KOLs pivoted from dPOS to Proof of Governance (aka Proof of Authority) they will soon have to pivot to 'proof of airdrop' as this is obviously the fastest and cheapest way to 'decentralize' a chain.

Jokes aside. The aztec testnet has been stable for over a month now. They just now mistakenly leaked the info that v1 of their client will be released soon. This means it could be close to production ready. I expect them to have validator slashing in that release which is essential and needs to be tested and improved for some time before the aztec mainnet can start. Looks like a great few months ahead for privacy.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth explains how ETH's narrative has suddenly gone from seldom promoted and often attacked on to firing on all cylinders</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m3nt54/daily_general_discussion_july_19_2025/n3z12qw/)

In simple terms, people related with Ethereum (researchers, early adopter Tradfi) have been persecuted. Ethereum was quickly identified as the biggest risk to the financial establishment because it has the first mover advantage in actually revolutionizing how finance is done in the world.

- This means your biggest advocates, your biggest bag holders have had an incentive to lay low and make little noise for very long.
- In the meantime, VC backed L1s have run psyops campaigns and attempted to extract value from Ethereum, treating the crypto space as a 0 sum game, and their space as a grifting machine.
- In the middle, you have tons of influencers, CT personalities, bloggers and podcasters (Bankless) riding this scenario by playing into VC money. 
- And finally, Bitcoin looming security budget and miner operation viability issues continue to grow while a few personalities (MSTR) run the last grift towards the sunset.

What changed? Well, the pie is getting bigger, TradFi adoption is now inevitable, SEC prosecution has been dropped. 

This means that:

- Ethereum main personalities are now more vocal and feel safe to do so (Lubin, Etherealize is formed, etc)
- L1 VCs are sidelined, crypto is no longer niche, they are not well positioned to capture new value of the growing pie.
- Influencers now get to play along and gas light us into thinking they never held altcoin bags and received incentives to run psyops. Even more, now they hold ETH and they turn their signal into positive and bombard us with mindless bull noise.
- Bitcoin miners slowly start leaving the space and rotating towards ETH as a viable business.

I guess that's the best summary I can get of this perfect storm. The same stupid influencers think this will be *another cycle* which tells you they are looking for signs to rotate their bags *again*. This time might be different. Ethereum might exit the crypto cycle standard as it becomes full of real world applications.

Does this mean ETH price will go up? I don't know. What it does mean is that Ethereum is on its way to become *THE NETWORK* for finance in this century.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ProfStrangelove explains how they used a ladder sell strategy to achieve peace of mind and profits</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m5a29c/daily_general_discussion_july_21_2025/n4bpwfc/)

For me what worked well in 2021 was a laddered sell strategy. I wrote about it before, here it is again:

What was important to me was peace of mind, regardless in which direction the price moves. This is crypto - it can drop 80% or it can do another 5x or whatever... And I wanted to lock in some profits since I went on the 2017 roller coaster without selling anything

So in 2021 I made an excel sheet with price points where I thought about selling some

The columns were:  
- Price point.  
- Eth left available to sell  
- Eth to sell at this price level.  
- Value of eth to sell at this price point in $.  
- Total $ sold (previous sells + this sell)   
- Total value of sold eth + unrealized gains at this price point 

Then I played around with the numbers until I found a ladder sell strategy that I thought would give me peace of mind no matter where the price moved after a target hit.

Best to do this before full fomo and moon talk kicks in... Make a plan and stick to it.

In the end I did some rebuys during the bigger retraces during the bull run with some of the money I got from the sells and then readjusted the excel.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 reports in on the Roman Storm Tornado Cash trial</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m65apf/daily_general_discussion_july_22_2025/n4hobn0/)

Reporting back on Roman Storm's trial (Tornado Cash developer) after the first week.

Some quite incredible things have happened during this first week alone (the trial is expected to last 3-4 weeks). In my first message, I mentioned the following:

> The first witness is now on the stand from the prosecution's side - a victim of a scammer (sent $190,000 to a fake trading platform). Of course, Roman had nothing to do with the scam but the scammer used Tornado Cash to hide their traces.

It turns out, the scammer in that case [may not have used Tornado Cash at all](https://xcancel.com/tayvano_/status/1946062225829175326)! (credit to Taylor Monahan from Metamask who decided to look into the details of the first victim's testimony). So why was the victim on the stand? The victim, "Katie Lin", contacted a cryptocurrency recovery service ("Payback"):

> Lin testified that after she was defrauded, a purported fraud recovery service instructed her to contact Tornado Cash about recovering her funds.

> The defense raised the issue of Lin’s evidentiary standing [...]. Defense attorney David Patton claimed that “We expected DeCapua [FBI Special Agent] to connect these flows” to Tornado Cash, but that, based on his testimony on cross examination, “apparently he hasn’t.”

What's also interesting is that the FBI [actually seized Payback's website in September 2024](https://www.fbi.gov/contact-us/field-offices/sandiego/news/fbi-san-diego-seizes-cryptocurrency-recovery-websites). The prosecution has responded by saying:

> In response to defense skepticism, the government said it would rely on the work of a different blockchain tracing expert, IRS analysis Stephan George, to connect Lin’s funds to Tornado Cash. This would arrive, prosecutors proposed, in a supplemental disclosure to arrive soon.

I was going to post a TLDR of the other days but honestly, it's too hard to boil it down to a single comment, even a long one. If you're interested in this case, read the summarising articles for each day [here](https://www.therage.co/tag/tornado-cash/).

It's basically what we expected though – the government focuses on the victims of scammers (obviously not victims of Tornado Cash...), their expert witness (FBI agent DeCapua) claims [regular people would not use VPNs](https://xcancel.com/innercitypress/status/1947318923558293874)... The government has a witness [testifying on the feasibility of implementing KYC/AML](https://www.therage.co/kyc-tornado-cash/) despite the developer no longer being charged with KYC/AML violations...

I'll keep you posted with further updates as the trial moves along!

___

If you are in a position to support reporting on this case, I would ask you to support [The Rage](https://www.therage.co/) who have honestly been the best source of information on this trial. They are an independent publication, some of the quotes above are from their articles and they post on Twitter about the case multiple times every day. I am not affiliated with them in any way.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz reminds us to champion decentralisation as Ethereum enters the institutional space</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m65apf/daily_general_discussion_july_22_2025/n4iczl7/)

Staking ought to be the neglected stepchild of Ethereum investment, but somehow it's the flagship tool. 

The flagship model ought to be something that faces outward and serves industry and humanity, maybe not defi, but whatever the evolutionary successor to defi is. We thought that might be SoFi (social finance) but that doesn't seem to have materialized [yet].

Staking doesn't inherently reward decentralization, even though that's the value driver of the network, and we haven't developed systems that can enforce decentralization, so when industry comes to stake (to give yield to investors), they're not interested in strengthening the value proposition of the network through radical decentralization, they're just trying to turn a buck. 

I support and welcome industry in Ethereum, but we engage on terms that promote the value of the network, not only the value to detached investors. Ethereum is an infant with hundreds of years of growth ahead of it, we are the stewards who can actualize that growth.

Know that Ethereum is permissionless, but that's not the same as lawless. We do establish protocol rules that promote the success of the network.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/danarchist makes the case for Ethereum to flip Bitcoin</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m65apf/daily_general_discussion_july_22_2025/n4ji9ln/)

First it's [fringe corporate treasuries](https://www.ainvest.com/news/corporate-treasuries-shift-ethereum-staking-yields-2507/), then mainstream, then sovereign funds who want actual yield and not just speculation will find their way to it. 

They're encouraged by the fact that [the worlds biggest banks and retailers are on their way to issuing stable coins on Ethereum](https://www.forbes.com/sites/ronshevlin/2025/06/22/americans-will-put-money-in-amazon-and-walmart-stablecoins/) in order to cut out the credit card cartels.

This next part I'm not super sure on, fuzzy napkin math and maybe someone can set me straight:

Every one of those Walmart purchases made with WUSD will cost a bit of gas. A tiny amount, since they will happen on the Walmart L2 and they're batched and settled every 15 minutes on the Ethereum L1, but some gas (eth) nevertheless.

Imagine if stablecoin transactions become just 10% of just Walmart's volume. That's $680.99 billion/10 = $68 billion annually. Half a million dollars like clockwork, every fifteen minutes, settled on Ethereum. 

But instead of paying 2% of that to the credit card companies, walmart instead pays a penny's worth of Eth per transaction. Assuming an average transaction of $50 then instead of paying $10,000 every 15 minutes to the credit card companies, walmart uses just $100 worth of ethereum. 

The annual spend on Eth would be just $3.5 million. The people they'd employ to manage that system would cost more than the system itself. In fact, at that point they'd be buying and staking enough Ethereum so as to have the staking yield offset the costs of settling all their transactions. 

Now imagine a bank like Chase does it, but instead of still having to accept cash for 90% of their transactions, they're all in and every transaction is using USDC behind the scenes.

Will Eth flip bitcoin? Who knows, people can keep irrationally buying what is essentially just a digital trading card for huge sums. But none of the above is possible on bitcoin. Have a look at the r/bitcoinmarkets Daily Discussion thread. 98% of the comments are just about price. There's nothing happening on bitcoin as a protocol. Hilariously there's one comment about a possibility that bitcoin gets tokenized through some MicroStrategy stock play, which will happen on Ethereum.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 shares Peter Szilagyi's last talk on Ethereum and u/epic_trader weighs in on the post</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m70frj/daily_general_discussion_july_23_2025/n4ou9tt/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

Peter Szilagyi, the former Lead Developer of Go Ethereum (Geth), had a talk recently at ETHCluj called _Decentralisation: Original dream vs. shaping reality_ . On Twitter he says this is his last talk on Ethereum. He's moved on and is currently working on a project called [Dark Bio](https://dark.bio) (it has something to do with genomics but I don't know too much about it).

His talk was [published today](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9WT-nsneEDA) and is an interesting watch. He talks about the dangers of centralization, how the international payment system evolved over time (into SWIFT) and was eventually weaponized. We probably don't want the same to happen to Ethereum.

Similar to how democracy is not a given and we need to actively defend it every day, Peter argues decentralization works the same way and if we don't _actively_ defend and work towards it, the natural tendency of any system will be to centralize.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m70frj/daily_general_discussion_july_23_2025/n4pjxl1/)

[u/epic_trader](https://reddit.com/u/epic_trader):

Peter is unfortunately making a lot of claims that he know is bullshit and I think that's surprising and disappointing, but probably because he's feeling some degree of animosity towards Ethereum over the way things went and ended.

He repeatedly presents accurate issues or natural progressions that leads to more centralization, but then falsely states it as if "we" or "the EF" actively decided against decentralization to make things in that way, when he's talking about decisions made by market participants, completely ignoring that Ethereum is permissionless and while the platform enables you to do anything you want, you can't and shouldn't force certain behaviours. 

For instance when talking about mining and MEV, he states that miners were "forced to use an MEV service and lost access to seeing transactions" which just isn't true. It's 100% true there's a financial pressure towards also participating in MEV, but no one was forced to due anything due to protocol design. 

He also states the 32ETH stake was set to 32 because "miners probably have 100k worth of mining equipment so we can use that as a baseline to determine the stake size" when in reality this number was chosen due to overheads when aggregating and verifying signatures AND when the original number stakers needed was expected to start at 1500 before it would come down. 

And he's doing the same thing when talking about how you used to be able to mine on a Raspberry Pi and didn't have Etherscan and Infura, as if those were better days and as if the advent of centralized offerings which greatly improves ease or use and user experience, is somehow a bad thing and an actively decided upon new more centralized path that makes it impossible to run your own node. 

It's a little tiring to listen to and takes away from his message.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>ALL HAIL THE ETERNAL CRAB ETERNAL POAP</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1m1yraq/daily_general_discussion_july_17_2025/n3my6a7/)

**ALL HAIL THE ETERNAL CRAB**

**ETERNAL POAP EDITION!**

⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐

⭐      🌌      📉      📈      📉      🌌      ⭐

⭐      📉      ♋      🐋      ♋      📉      ⭐

⭐      📈      🐋      🦀      🐋      📈      ⭐

⭐      📉      ♋      🐋      ♋      📉      ⭐

⭐      🌌      📉      📈      📉      🌌      ⭐

⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐      ⭐

**$1000-----------$3408-----$5000**

**2021----------2025----------∞**

The lows were visited.

The middle of the range was visited.

Now, we're once again visiting the highs of the Eternal Range.

It is time to celebrate the Eternal and Powerful Crab.

Gentlemen, Lady, I present to you...

[The Eternal Crab POAP!](https://airship.poap.xyz/the-eternal-crab)

Doesn't matter if you are a bull, a bear, or a Crab follower, because you were here during the Eternal Crab.

Shitposting, giving hope, updating on technology, whining, trading, getting rekt, but still slogging through the mud for an amount of time that would make any ordinary investor just give up many times over.

But you believed in the fundamentals... or are waiting to become rich because you understood something that few did.

Where will the price go next?

*All donations from this POAP go to a mod-controlled address (which I have no access to and make zero profit on) and will be donated to the [Protocol Guild](https://www.protocolguild.org/), securing the future of Ethereum.*

\*This is my first attempt at any kind of online artwork... It took me an embarrassingly long time to make, so let me know what you think. It's also the first time I'm using my ENS, launch a POAP, or help in any kind of Ethereum donation!

</details>

