---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-08-22
episode: 121
guest: Leo Lanza
guest_topic: "[The Bull Case for ETH](https://ethdigitaloil.com/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/Ngsqo1OxOm
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mwxjkf/comment/na0uyhc/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/Gumpa-Bucky](https://reddit.com/u/Gumpa-Bucky)

> $4,283 and headed for greatness

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> 0.038

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mw1tq5/comment/n9yir1v/)

*Come back to your roots,*

*We grow strong from our disputes,*

*Embracing our doots.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Choda Time!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mw1tq5/comment/n9yi4oy/)

༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ ETH TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Tricky_Troll</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mqo2qc/daily_general_discussion_august_15_2025/n8toj7n/)

I hereby announce my intention for my company to buy 5% of the ETH supply. Now give me money so I can buy all this ETH.

Woah, that actually worked?!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 highlights some alternative stablecoins to use to divest from Circle who want to utilise their own L1</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mpr8di/daily_general_discussion_august_14_2025/n8m9e5r/)

If you have USDC or any other Circle minted stablecoins it's a very good moment to consider switching to an alternative that does not intend to migrate to a centralized DB with a bit blockchain buzzword handwaving. Here are some options:

BOLD (Liquity, pure DeFi)

mUSD (~~just announced~~ rumored future stablecoin by Consensys)

PYUSD (Paypal)

EURe/USDe (Monerium)

**This matters way more than you think.** The sooner we vote with our dollars the better.

---

hanniabu: Can't highlight that last line enough. They will try to vampure attack USDC liquidity on Ethereum and migrate it to their chain.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/epic_trader issues a call to action for the community to help out in threads outside of the daily</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mpr8di/daily_general_discussion_august_14_2025/n8p2wlv/)

Just want to encourage people to visit the other threads on the main sub and comment going forward. There seems to be an increasing number of posts from people who are new to Ethereum and the quality of lots of the replies is garbage. Like so much misinformation and lack of basic understanding.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/whisperedstate is following the degradation of Monero in light of the PoW attack and its implications for Bitcoin</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mqo2qc/daily_general_discussion_august_15_2025/n8w77df/)

Kraken now suspending Monero deposits/withdrawals. Pretty crazy to see real world attacks on PoW. We've all known here that it's always been inevitable, but this just shows that security degrades if it's not profitable to mine. A lot of people think Bitcoin is immune to this, but on the contrary, every 4 years this becomes more and more inevitable for Bitcoin too. Very bearish for PoW.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/trillionSdollarstech shares a bullish take from JPMorgan</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mqo2qc/daily_general_discussion_august_15_2025/n8uf6x8/)

> JPMORGAN ANALYSTS: "WE THINK ETHER $ETH IS EMERGING AS A DIRECT WAY TO GAIN EXPOSURE TO THE EXPECTED METEORIC GROWTH IN STABLECOINS AS THE ETHEREUM NETWORK HOSTS MOST OF THESE STABLECOIN ASSETS,"

<https://x.com/scottmelker/status/1956347647960474059>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Gumba_Hasselhoff shares their learnings on fiat money and highlights just how cheap and efficient ETH's scarcity is</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mrlbd6/daily_general_discussion_august_16_2025/n8z76ha/)

So I recently read a nice book by German game theorist and economist Christian Rieck called "Fürstengeld, Fiatgeld, Bitcoin" (Duke Money, Fiat Money, Bitcoin). Yes, it's written in German and no official translation exists.

I know Rieck from his Youtube and social media as a rational guy and liked some of his crypto takes I had heard so far, especially as he – coming from traditional finance –  is not particulary cought up in the exisiting narratives of the crypto world, while also not running into the kneejerk reactions against crypto that "normal" economists often do.

The book doesn't mention ETH, and Bitcoin actually not that much either, it's mostly cleaning up with misconceptions about fiat money, that are *very* rampart in crypto circles.

This is not a summary, just a bunch of things which he wrote that I found to be insightful. I'm gonna make multiple parts out of it to keep the size in check (this is part 1). Everything in \[square brackets\] is not from the book but my personal interpretation or from additional research.

**Modern fiat money is the result of two major forces:**

* The historically original function of money is to **mark debt relationships** between people, which quickly changed from individual debt contracts to standardized units, because this fungibility unlocks *enormous* economic efficiency
* This **standardization needs a consensus**, which historically inevitably meant an **authority** like an aristocrat (the duke from the book title), later a central bank, and these days now **decentralisation of this consensus is possible**
* **Scarecity** isn't a first order property of money, it's only adopted because enforcement by legal means alone of legitimacy of money is an *insanely hard* problem, so the adoption of hard limits tends to emerge.
   * **Without scarecity** (like gold backing) illegitimate printing of money would be easy (both for third party forgers and the money emitting authority itself)
   * **Scarecity implies a cost** that has to be carried by someone. If consequently you need gold coins for an entire economy to run on, the work for producing/minting/buying gold coins has to be put in, which at this scale is obviously extremely expensive. Or in other words, it's a lot of work that could have been put into something directly productive instead.
      * \[Proof of stake is historically low in it's production and running cost, although costs are not zero\]

**In conclusion:**

1. **Difficult enforcement** of the legitimacy of money **pushes towards scarecity based** **money**
2. The **cost of scarecity** **pushes away from a scarecity based system**

This resulted in moving from one side to the other and back in this spectrum, for pretty much all of human history; a dynamic I hadn't really grasped before reading the book.

In the modern era enforcement without scarecity has been more doable because of better legal systems, primarily including the separation of central bank and government (money emitter and seniorage profiteur in economic terms)

Which basically works until it doesn't, as seen in a bunch of (hyper)inflation szenarios in the modern era where the central bank happily played their part as government finacier. See also the recent (in historical terms) case of quantitative easing world wide, which is still – in effect – the central bank financing the government. Through more indirect means than before (driving costs for government bonds down by buying on the secondary market) but nontheless.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1msi17h/daily_general_discussion_august_17_2025/n95rc54/)

Part 2 of interesting points from the book Fürstengeld, Fiatgeld, Bitcoin (Duke Money, Fiat Money, Bitcoin) by Christian Rieck:

**Misconceptions about fiat money:**

* **The name "fiat" money**: Translates to "Let it be!" or "Let it happen!" which is often portrayed in crypto circles as "happen by state decree", *which is wrong*. The term describes any transactors deciding to declare a debt relationship (i.e. A lends his car to B, they declare a debt relationship, if enforcement here is reliable, A can use the debt contract itself for transactions or as collateral. It functions in effect as fiat money.
* Fiat money is not the same as what Rieck calls **Fürstengeld (duke money)**, where an aristocrat both produces the money as a monopoly and profits by spending it himself (seigniorage). This type of money will reliably collapse in the long term because of misaligned incentives.
* The sum of money in circulation in a fiat money system is caused by economic activity alone (because it's all debt contracts) and **monetary inflation doesn't cause price inflation**. (Sounds counterintuitive at a glance, I know, but there are many examples where money supply has massively risen with population increase or increased productivity per person while price inflation was near zero.)
   * This is contrary to both scarcity based systems (where money is backed by scarcity, not by economic values) and duke money systems (where money isn't backed by anything). **In both of these, monetary inflation will lead to price inflation** pretty reliably.
   * So is the modern monetary system really fiat money? Generally yes, money always comes from debt relationships here, but the lines can start to blur towards duke money when that separation between central bank and government crumbles:
      * In quantitative easing, the central bank is indirectly lending to the government at lower than market rates, in other words, without expectation of getting the money back (because an efficient market rate is the same as the risk adjusted one). **The central bank is effectively financing the government, then leading to actual price inflation**.

**In conclusion:**

In a fiat money system, not the amount of money in circulation defines price inflation, **but the quality of lending does.**

If lending is not backed by real economic value, more money is now existent while real goods are the same as before -> prices go up.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mu98bh/daily_general_discussion_august_19_2025/n9kv4rp/)

Part 3 of interesting points from the book Fürstengeld, Fiatgeld, Bitcoin (Duke Money, Fiat Money, Bitcoin) by Christian Rieck:

**The goddam 2% inflation target that every economist ever agrees upon:**

I feel kinda dumb for this, but this is the first time I think I understood this one (I'll just say *inflation* when I mean *price inflation* here, same for *price deflation*).

The 2% target is generally seen as the sweet spot between low inflation and high inflation:

**Advantages of low inflation:**

* Too high inflation causes self-reinforcing collapse of the currency because no one wants to hold it, I mean, obviously

**Advantages of high inflation:**

* **Incentivizes spending** (also gets an "obviously")
* **Incentivizes lending** (that's the not so intuitive one)
   * For lending happening the **incentive to lend** and the **incentive to borrow** need to be there
   * **During inflation debt loses its value** over time and is easier to be paid back
   * In a deflationary environment, when the money must be paid back, at some point it will be worth more in real value than what was originally lent + an risk adjusted interest rate (+ some more interest to cover the friction caused by the transaction if you want). Even if the lender doesn't intend to make a profit on average he will be getting back more in real value.
   * So, **deflation reduces the incentive to borrow**
      * What about a negative interest rate to cover this problem?
      * Well, lending is an option (just like those financial instruments that are literally called options) which means there is the option, but not the obligation to lend. And **nobody lends for a negative interest rate**, lol.
      * So, **in a deflationary environment the interest rate can lose its ability to adjust for money changing in value over time,** forced by the optionality of lending
   * **Lending is an insane growth motor;** most big investments are made with lent money in some form. Thats why a disincentive to lend can grind an entire economy to stagnation.
   * Theoretically a slight deflation would still work by this framework, but since inflation is hard to control you would want buffers from the target value downwards (until lending starts being disincentivized) and upwards (until the public starts losing trust in the currency)
      * Of course that does not derive the 2% as an exact target, for this big scale empirical testing is necessary

**In conclusion:**

Making any scarcity-based money the "main" transaction money of a society is not good idea. **Growth is hard to achieve in scarcity-based systems.** In fact, it's hard to achieve in any monetary system that can't adjust its supply to economic activity.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll delivers a critical privacy PSA for EU citizens</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1msi17h/daily_general_discussion_august_17_2025/n94omw6/)

Not entirely on-topic but privacy and open source encrypted messaging services are under threat by the EU again. They're pushing very hard to get chat control legislation pushed through, despite the ***AI which will scan all of your personal communications*** only having 20% accuracy. So you could be under investigation by the local police for simply asking your local linux nerd "How to kill a child (process) when the parent stops running". In the long run, they could put anything under the scope of illegal activity, including telling people about the ongoing genocide X in location Y which your government is complicit in the killing of innocent people.

Oh and obviously the politicians trying to implement this dystopian suppression of the basic human right to communication would be exempt from having their messages scanned because people in power never ever harm children. You can definitely trust them on that one.

Please. Reach out to your elected officials now! If the EU falls it's only a matter of time before the rest of the western world falls too. I know I won't be the only one getting one step closer to giving up on humanity and therefore not having kids if we continue down that dangerous path. We can’t afford to lose the freedoms western governments post WW2 granted us as we won’t ever get them back at the speed which technology is progressing.

We've beaten this bullshit legislation before and we can do it again. Please do your part.

<https://fightchatcontrol.eu/>

Good Louis Rossman video on the topic here: <https://youtube.com/watch?v=3NyUgv6dpJc>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheMoondanceKid identifies the next major group after treasury companies are done buying up ETH</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1msi17h/daily_general_discussion_august_17_2025/n96finn/)

For all the "who is going to buy ETH once the ETH treasury companies are done loading their bags" people:

> Vast majority of investors in BofA global fund manager survey have \*zero\* crypto exposure…
> 
> Of small % who do have exposure, average portfolio allocation = 3.2%.

[https://x.com/NateGeraci/status/1957074513365016952](https://x.com/NateGeraci/status/1957074513365016952)

Trillions of dollars just sitting there waiting to buy your ETH at much higher prices. And you're selling it at $4,500 because we had a little dip and it might be over, or because you made a spreadsheet last year and randomly picked $4,500 as a nice place to sell some. Come on gents (and lady). Hang in there!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/trillionSdollarstech shares Tom Lees latest bullish tweet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mtcv5o/daily_general_discussion_august_18_2025/n9cx9kc/)

> TOM LEE: ETHEREUM IS POISED TO LEVERAGE THE WHITE HOUSE GENIUS ACT AND SEC’S PROJECT CRYPTO THE SAME WAY WALL STREET BOOMED AFTER 1971 WHEN THE USD CAME OFF THE GOLD STANDARD
> 
> "The GENIUS Act and SEC's Project Crypto are as transformational to financial services in 2025 as US action on August 15, 1971 ending Bretton Woods and the USD on the gold standard 54 years ago
> 
> This 1971 event was the catalyst for the modernization of Wall Street, creating the iconic Wall Street titans and financial and payment rails of today. These proved to be better investments than gold"

<https://x.com/CryptoGucci/status/1957455836713738447>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard introduces us to a top-tier thought-provoking Bankless episode on financial markets</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mu98bh/daily_general_discussion_august_19_2025/n9lwcxg/)

[This Bankless episode](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-LrPKcJ_xjo&ab_channel=Bankless) with Michael Green is amongst the most thought provoking episode I've seen on there in years. It's full of interesting mechanical insights on financial markets. It talks about how low float tokens led to the dotcom stock bubble. It talks about price elasticity like a recent post of mine did and how that changes with market cap and due to compulsive buyers like ETFs. It talks about the demographic/pension crises and some seemingly inevitable market halting events coming at us. It talks about legislative distortions of decisions that have been made without being blanket anti-regulation. It talks about hard currencies in ways that will be quite unfamiliar to those who subscribe to a 21M hard cap and specifically paints Bitcoin as being anti-human innovation while being pro tokenization. He has a rather academic view at times, but it was an interesting watch.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/tokidoki unleashed a storm on their keyboard and explained a few different Ethereum ecosystem apps</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mv5nq3/daily_general_discussion_august_20_2025/n9ta53i/)

Gonna yap a bit before I get to the useful stuff. &forgive any weird formatting/errors as I'm typing this out on my phone and from memory (and on practically no sleep). Feel free to skip the first paragraph lol So it's been a couple of years since I last logged in, basically since RIF died. Been holding through the peaks and valleys and lurking most days though. I'm glad the daily is more vibrant than ethfinance was after the API changes killed off a lot of the old guard (plus the shedding from the bear, hacks, life in general... RIP JBM, I hope you tamed those demons my dude) but I'm a bit disappointed by how little signal there is in the sub now. I learned about reputable DeFi protocols like Pendle/Morpho from the dailies and through the years have managed to grow my stack significantly. Specifically will like to call out /u/LogrisTheBard (hopefully this tags so he can see lol) since Pendle during the points meta made me a killing. But anyways here's a few protocols and resources I'd recommend for any DeFi newbies and hopefully it will help you build conviction in this glorious asset we call ETH just as it strengthened mine throughout the years. I'll avoid direct links since I'm not sure what's allowed or not but as long as you've got an ad blocker (you do use an ad blocker, right anon?) googling/using the general knowledge resources should get you to the right place. Remember to bookmark the protocols you use regularly as well to avoid misclicks. Also my personal suggestion is don't pirate shit / go to lots of porn sites (horny brain dumb) on the same computer your hot wallet is on. 

**General knowledge:** 

- DefiLlama- gives you a basic overview of protocols, TVL, links to their websites/socials. You can filter the protocols by chain as well so if you know only want something on mainnet/base/arbitrum etc you won't waste anytime. I take TVL as a general measure of trustworthiness and personally anything below $100M TVL I won't touch. 
- ExponentialFi - for the true newbie I'd probably start here. The free education (learn and explore tabs) they have is really good if you have no idea what you're doing. Explaining how DeFi yield works, giving their own assessments of risks and protocol credibility, all things I found quite helpful starting out. Their primary goal is to get you to sign up for their service where they will manage your on-chain funds, but I can't speak about the quality of the service as I've never utilized it. I think its legit though, maybe another member here that's used them can chime in.

**Swaps:**

- CoW swap -- stands for coincidence of wants, charges no fees, generally eeks out a little extra return compared to others and most importantly, moos at you when it finds a match. Much love and highly recommended. IMO no reason to use any other service for swaps. 

**Lending:**

- Aave - it's the big kahoona, you all know it. Battle tried and tested, gone through multiple bears unscathed. You want DeFi at it's safest this is the place. Check out the Umbrella or staking (insurance for AAVE) for what I'd consider the best risk/reward rate possible. 
- Morpho - A competitor to AAVE that initially differentiated themselves by offering slightly better rates by matching users. I think either they or Gearbox were the first to utilize vaults but I'd say vaults are the primary draw these days. You put assets to a vault and the curator splits it among protocols to generate yield. Higher risk than AAVE but not particularly dangerous (IIRC most vaults are around an up to 2% chance yearly to lose up to \~10% of assets). Read the risk reports under the vault for the methodology and explanation. But stick with the whitelisted vaults and you should be chill.
- Pendle - big breakthrough here was in offering fixed rates and splitting yield. During points mania PT (principle token) Eth derivatives just printed money. I think I was getting \~40% APY at one point. Those days are past us but being able to lock in a fixed rate is still worthwhile. Just be mindful that its locked and trying to redeem early can cause significant loss. An example is when the redemption rates suddenly changed for USD0++ (from 1:1 to 1:0.85 IIRC) and people that were holding PT got hammered.  

Now to a protocol I've been researching and I hope some other experienced members can chime in on -- Summer fi recently launched their lazy summer protocol (TVL ~120M, combined total of ~$450M) which is an aggregator built on top of Morpho/Euler/Gearbox vaults that automatically redistributes according to rates. The onboarding process appeared suspiciously easy, +a mix of AI buzzwords and dedicated support agents gave me a great deal of pause initially, but further research has me convinced its not a scam/honeypot. Note this is still significantly higher risk than say Morpho alone, as summer is built on top of other protocols and vaults so you're taking on protocol, vault and asset risk. Yield is highly attractive despite the 1% management fee as they will be launching their token soon (I recommend dropping the marketcap assumption for SUMR down to at most $100M from their assumption of $250M... Morpho is about 8 times larger at $4B TVL protocol and token is only \~$700M mcap). The automated reallocating is nice if you are frequently swapping in and out of vaults chasing yield (similar to Beefy finance for LPs). Logris if you've already desposited into the protocol dm me your referral code (or if mods allow post below so others use it too) as I'm happy to give you a little extra yield as a thank you for all the opportunities you've shared over the years. 

Anyways, if you've made it this far thanks for reading and feel free to tell me how I got all this wrong lol Going back to lurking now. Stay strong Eth fam and remember you do NOT kill the golden goose.

o7

</details>
