---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-06-20
episode: 115
guest: Brian Smocovich
guest_topic: "[Pistachio.fi](https://www.pistachio.fi/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/E9XiL5uVZN
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RnNKIn6-InE
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lfvltk/comment/myrfeep/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/GrubleGrable](https://reddit.com/u/GrubleGrable)

> $2,507

[u/SelfmadeMillionaire](https://reddit.com/u/SelfmadeMillionaire)

> 0.02404

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lbt8bo/comment/mxz3k24/)

*Popping up bubble,*

*Liquidity won't double,*

*Stay out of trouble.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Turkish2026</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lf2dej/comment/mylm4ak/)

Yesterday we entered a time loop.  Today, {%B %d, %Y}, we have broken the simulation.  This is what happens when we don't quit.  The matrix programmers are running out of ideas.  All that is left now is up 🚀🌕

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cryptOwOcurrency educates us on censorship from Bitcoin Core and their efforts to rewrite history</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l653zi/daily_general_discussion_june_08_2025/mwovhoc/)

Bitcoin core developers are currently rewriting one of the most important parts of Bitcoin’s history. Ironically, it’s through the use of an official opinion piece posted directly on bitcoin.org.

Do not let this happen. Help us publish far and wide that they are trying to erase Bitcoin’s past.

From today’s opinion piece, they say they have a “long-running” policy of allowing users to run different Bitcoin software that implements different network policies, which is “the network’s primary safeguard against coercion”. This is a dangerous lie, as anyone who has been a part of the crypto community since 2015 can tell you.

Quote from today’s statement:

> Bitcoin is a network that is defined by its users, who have ultimate freedom in choosing what software they use (fully-validating or not) and implementing whatever policies they desire. Bitcoin Core contributors are not in a position to mandate what those are. One way this is reflected is by our long-running practice of avoiding auto-updating in the software. This means that no entity can unilaterally push out changes to Bitcoin Core users: changes must be made by users choosing to adopt new software releases themselves, or if they so desire, different software. Being free to run any software is the network’s primary safeguard against coercion.
>
> <https://bitcoincore.org/en/2025/06/06/relay-statement/>

Rewind to 2015. In 2015, the core developers removed Coinbase from bitcoin.org, and all discussion of Coinbase was banned on /r/bitcoin.

The ban wasn’t even because Coinbase was running Bitcoin software that implemented a different policy. It was because Coinbase took a “wait and see” approach towards network policy, and did not *affirmatively denounce* the use of such software through their official communication channels.

Because Coinbase did not affirmatively defend the core client against alternate policy, they were deemed “not a Bitcoin company” and removed from the official bitcoin.org materials.

> Theymos made good on his earlier threats (archive) to remove Coinbase from bitcoin.org, along with any other company that dared to voice an opinion in favor of bigger blocks (as seen in this Github commit).
>
> …/u/Nathan2055 also posted a screenshot of a private message exchange he had with /r/bitcoin moderator 110101002, in which the moderator explains that discussion of Coinbase is now completely forbidden in /r/bitcoin for being off-topic, simply because they run a different backend that is not Bitcoin Core.
>
> <https://medium.com/@johnblocke/a-brief-and-incomplete-history-of-censorship-in-r-bitcoin-c85a290fe43>

The article tells the whole story, but the basic gist is that the core developers were firmly, adamantly against clients that implement different policies. So much so that they used official resources to cancel any person or company that attempted to use them or promote their usage.

So the idea that they have a “long-standing policy” of acceptance of alternate clients is dangerous. The issue of rewriting history is relevant to all blockchains including Ethereum.

It’s critical to preserve this part of history so that it doesn’t happen again. If they can successfully erase it, we’re all fucked.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu issues a call to action for a VanEck Twitter poll and u/Tricky_Troll answered the call</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l7rb80/daily_general_discussion_june_10_2025/mx45nmt/)

[u/hanniabu](https://reddit.com/u/hanniabu):

If you have a twitter account, help do your part. It shouldn't even be this close of a poll. Normally polls are dumb but the optics coming from an ETF provider matters.

<https://x.com/vaneck_us/status/1932586884770701516>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l7rb80/daily_general_discussion_june_10_2025/mx48pup/)

[u/Tricky_Troll](https://reddit.com/u/Tricky_Troll):

They're asking why. I answered. Let's get this seen.

<https://x.com/TrickyDotEth/status/1932597228579025148>

> We need a permissionless global settlement layer.
> 
> ETH: Consumer hardware validators from all around the world, including myself in rural NZ.
> 
> SOL: Requires data centre grade hardware, unprofitable for small stakers. Mostly US and EU nodes.
> 
> Only 1 is truly censorship resistant.

Also made my response as a direct reply: <https://x.com/TrickyDotEth/status/1932598237875351790>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Twelvemeatballs shares their ETHPrague journalism piece on the state of privacy in web 3</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l7rb80/daily_general_discussion_june_10_2025/mx26pz0/)

During ETHPrague, I posted here to say that the panel on the Ethereum Privacy Roadmap was a bit depressing. u/richardsaganIII asked if I would elaborate on that, which I took as encouragement to choose that panel for my first article about the event.

[**We are LARPing Privacy**](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l85xwz/ethprague_we_are_larping_privacy/)

It's about a four-minute read. I've also linked the video so you can watch it directly.

This is the first of four articles about ETHPrague. Special thanks to EVMavericks for their grant which made this happen. If you want more content and resources for the sub, please be sure to support your local Mavs!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog summarises the status of Polygon after they announce they're scrapping their Ethereum L2 plans</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l8l5xv/daily_general_discussion_june_11_2025/mx8mtnq/)

The polygon POS chain started in May 2020. Back then, general purpose rollups did not exist. OP mainnet started in a limited fashion only 7 Months later and Arbitrum over a year later. Polygon brought high throughput (peak was 170 tps over a day) and cheap transactions to the Ethereum ecosystem (term used very losely here). The Polygon team bought crypto media figures left and right and brought them on as advisors. The polygon team stretched definitions and tried to convince people that they are an L2 and not a sidechain. They got criticized heavily for it, rightly so. The reality however was that if your dapp was not a high value dapp, you could not really deploy on Ethereum mainnet because of the high transaction fees. Sure, there were other sidechains, but polygon with their business development team managed to bring so many major Ethereum projects to their chain. If you wanted composability and cheap fees, you had to be on polygon. That is why in 2021/2022 it was the place to be for many lower value dapps. I also deployed quite a few contracts on there. Rollups were still painfull to use, unreliable and more expensive. The plan of Polygon was to migrate the POS chain to a zk rollup once the tech was ready. They bought the Hermes team to build it for them. 

Over the coming two years. Rollups matured and various zkRollups were released (Starknet, ZKsync, linea, scroll, ...). Unfortunately, none of the zkEVMs got massive traction. Zksync seems to be doing better than others though and Linea has at least the backing of Consensys. Polygons own zkEVM has been trailing behind the other zk rollups and it did not seem to catch up by any metric, even though the UX got better. Optimistic rollups also stole the mindshare away from Polygon POS. In addition, zk rollups seem to struggle to find product market fit, even though they are more secure than optimistic rollups and improve on some UX issues optimistic rollups have. I guess at the moment, the most reasonable path forward for zkrollup teams is probably to try and become the stack onto which native rollups are built upon or later on even the snarkified mainnet. Not sure how big the chances are for each team is to reach this goal though. So, I would guess the Polygon team did not find a good way to finish their zkEVM and migrate their chain to their zk stack. So they had to salvage what is possible and now try to find a way forward with their POS chain. 

At the moment Polygon POS does about 2.5 times the transactions Ethereum mainnet does. Not really spectacular considering the scaling goals we have with mainnet. Polygon will be a slower, more centralized sidechain without interoperability. Centralized high throughput chains are also a dime a dozen and the Polygon POS stack is just massively outdated. Not really a good way to convince people to develop on it. So, the news about changing the focus for Polygon POS is not really surprising, but also not really impactful, as most people moved on from Polygon POS. I am not sure what they would want to focus on, but I would be surprised if Polygon POS manages to survive as a sidechain.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/MinimalGravitas encourages us to be the change we want to see</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lb1k3t/daily_general_discussion_june_14_2025/mxpqqzt/)

Be the change you want to see, the more sensible people that contribute over there the more interesting content readers there will see. 

Yes, there are a lot of bitcoin maxis, solana shills and generally dishonest actors, but if you can be bothered to engage then calling out their bullshit can be a fun way to force yourself to learn more about Ethereum's design choices.

I sporadically decide to push back over there against blatant falsehoods, and every time the arguments follow the same pattern:

* They make a false claim based on whatever narrative their influencer of choice is currently peddling [e.g. "Ethereum costs too much to use so everything will eventually be built on Bitcoin" or "Ethereum is dead, most projects have moved to faster chains."];
* You point out why that is false and provide links to back it up [e.g. block explorers showing current costs of transactions on both chains; or links to recent announcements by big companies showing they are building on Ethereum];
* They claim you are cherry picking and  that the narrative they have heard is correct in general - no references ever supplied;
* You provide more general data [e.g. charts of historical transaction costs; or Hanniabu's Ethereum adoption list];
* They try to change the topic to something unrelated [e.g. "well then why are the EF dumping on you all the time?"];
* You ask if they are conceding that their first claim was false before moving onto the next topic;
* They then in every case take one of two options, either make some comment on how none of it matters as the price of ETH isn't doing well, or they just block you.

While that may seem like a boring waste of time to go through every time, it is actually useful. For other people reading it makes it very clear which side is full of shit, and so helps inoculate at least some members of the community against some of the egregious false narratives that get pushed on investors; and secondly, the people who block you can't see your posts or comments, meaning that they are unable to jump in to derail discussion next time you post positive Ethereum news over there.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/InsuranceGuyQuestion makes the case for Circle adopting the Microstrategy technique for ETH while u/rhythm_of_eth makes a good counterpoint</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lclcqh/daily_general_discussion_june_16_2025/my2obn9/)

[u/InsuranceGuyQuestion](https://reddit.com/u/InsuranceGuyQuestion):

Circle should take the $SBET route and create an ETH reserve that rivals $MSTR’s BTC reserve.

The company has the revenue and is large enough that it could easily borrow over $50-100 billion. The implications of something on this scale, given ETH’s current market cap, would be astronomical and could multiply its price several times over.

It would also align with their brand, since their main product is so deeply integrated into the ETH ecosystem. Just a random thought I had, but I’m curious if they’ve ever considered it internally.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lclcqh/daily_general_discussion_june_16_2025/my3q5os/)

[u/rhythm_of_eth](https://reddit.com/u/rhythm_of_eth):

I doubt they can do this. 

They have almost no funds to buy ETH. Remember that to stay compliant with EU (and US soon) legal frameworks they must have over collateralization with USD and EUR denominated assets.

They gain revenue on treasuries and the play is to have a fuck ton of those assets yielding.

If for whatever reason they started having crypto in their books, it'd need to be beyond said collateral and fully segregated (otherwise they'd be as much of a dump play as USDT is).

So really the only cash they have is the millions they've raised through IPO, and I'm pretty sure they want the cash to burn it as OPEX and expand, not to create a crypto treasury. It'd also be a drop in the bucket anyways.

Not happening imho. Circle is the opposite play to MSTR. Is the sane, non leveraged play. We need that WAY more than speculative ETH treasuries by stock exchange companies

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard concludes his AI endgame series</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lefa7k/daily_general_discussion_june_18th_2025/myim4ji/)

Concluding my AI Endgame [post series.](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kklbna/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2025/mry7owy/?context=3)

Regardless of the path we take as a species it’s worth noting this isn’t AI’s fault. In a late stage capitalism endgame AI will not subjugate humanity by its choice; humanity will do this to itself. Furthermore, you can’t expect this technology to slow down. The stakes are too high; the momentum is already too great. Instead we need to prepare for this future. We need to scale up investments in technologies that preserve a place for humanity in the world. This includes [human coordination](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/human-coordination/) technologies I write about frequently, but also we need to prepare defensive applications of AI that can protect you from the biases and extractive interests of those currently investing hundreds of billions a year into this grand endeavor. If the problem with using AI for information retrieval is bias injection then having a defensive AI detect and strip those biases is the answer. This is similar to ad-block in your browser today. If the problem with using AI for automation is that you aren’t being compensated for your subject matter expertise then building a personal or community AI you can monetize is the answer. We need to accelerate AI in a [defensive way](https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2023/11/27/techno_optimism.html). To accomplish this we need to focus on making model creation accessible to the masses.

This gets a little technical but here’s an incomplete list of technologies we should focus on developing:

* Models need ownership frameworks and those owners need to be able to monetize use. This is important to fund the creation of the model but a revenue stream from model ownership is also the answer to having all of your skills monetized and being made obsolete. This is possible in multiple ways using either privacy technologies like MPC (Multi-Party Computation) or special ways of encrypting the data so decryption is required at the time of use.
* Personal data needs to be more readily convertible to a training-ready format. Training data needs to be curated by little more than watching you perform skills. Historical data needs to be convertible to training data in bulk by doing little more than granting permission to access it.
* Data labeling for more complex tasks needs to be crowd-sourced. If you are using AI today you are already crowd sourcing this data for the tech giants but we can create platforms that let you do this to earn partial ownership of the models that train using the data you label.
* Community models will require governance frameworks which are more sophisticated than the tools we have today to manage patching open source code.
* Hardware for training the model needs to be widely accessible without relying on large cloud providers like AWS. Literally billions of people aren’t able to create AWS accounts. This will require a globally accessible supply of hardware which can be accessed without KYC and with little more than a mobile phone or a decade old laptop.
* The cost of creating models needs to be reduced by orders of magnitude. This can be done in two ways. First, a public listing of models and some type of benchmark of their competencies will let you reduce costs by starting training with a model which is already competent at similar tasks. Second, if we create peer-to-peer markets for enterprise grade hardware we can reduce the exploitive margins the largest cloud providers charge.
The technical competence of training needs to be accessible without an interview process. The cleanest way to do this is to create job-board style marketplaces where those with this expertise can bid against each other to guarantee a fair rate while making this skillset available to whomever needs it.
* Individuals need to be able to protect their data sets while accessing this hardware. This can be achieved with TEE’s (Trusted Execution Environment) if done very carefully.
AI inference needs to be viable on consumer hardware that can sit beside the owner. This is possible by either training on much smaller models to start or by training large models and then discarding weights that weren’t relevant to the specialization training set. I’ve seen specialized models which were 90% smaller than frontier LLMs they were trained from without sacrificing task competency.
* AIs need to be composable into agentic-meshes so many smaller AIs can be combined to complete more complex tasks.

Together these advances can enable billions of people to create small scale personal and community AIs. Can this be done? Can you really build an AI without hiring a team of data scientists and running your own AI company? Can an AI you make really compete without the same scale of capital as the leading players today? It’s actually more viable than you probably think. With respect to capital investment, AIs with narrower focus and higher quality data can be made effective at tasks with exponentially less data and capital investment than the AGI efforts of the tech giants. With respect to technical skill, solutions to all of this are already in development in an ecosystem called [Decentralized AI](https://www.coinbase.com/blog/demystifying-the-crypto-x-ai-stack).

Full post is available on [my blog](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/ai-endgame).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth points out that almost all stablecoins are still on mainnet for trust reasons</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lefa7k/daily_general_discussion_june_18th_2025/myid8b6/)

Reminder: Mainnet has 130Bn in stablecoins. L2 combined barely have more than 10Bn

Since Nov 2024, it's a 30% increase in Mainnet and 10% increase in L2s.

All this while MGas throughput increased 20% in L1 and a whooping 90% increase in L2s (Base leading).

L2s scaling execution is no news. L1 remains the absolute source of trust and liquidity which should not be news either.

Recent developments, like Shopify integration with Base is going to increase transacted stablecoin volumes but it's unlikely that it'll increase the amount of stablecoins locked there significantly. It's sane to expect this could actually increase stables in L1 considerably.

Trust is the commodity. Ethereum is where you store it, ETH is your trust primitive.

Store of trust.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog shares Joe Lubin's take on the Etherealize report</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lf2dej/daily_general_discussion_b_d_y/mymd8wz/)

Joe Lubin talks about the recent etherealize report and its analysis. He loves it and sets it into context of what was discussed in the space for many years. He says there is one big flaw in the report: 'It is not bullish enough'. 

He then goes on: The change that Ethereum will bring will be larger than any of us can imagine at the moment. There is currently no single way to value Ethereum which is able to capture all that. Some of the valuation models have been talked about in the report. He adds an idea of a 'trust commodity'. Ethereum will be the highes standard of trust on the planet. This gives Ethereum value which is far beyond anything that standard revenue based models can predict.

u/hanniabu, now it is official: you are not bullish enough ;-)


Discussion on r/ethereum:

<https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l9mb2r/eth_is_digital_oil/>


Joe Lubins Message about the report

<https://xcancel.com/ethereumJoseph/status/1935596623297474677>

or 

<https://x.com/ethereumJoseph/status/1935596623297474677>


Joe Lubins outline on what a trust commodity is:

<https://xcancel.com/ethereumJoseph/status/1930080358118175046>

or

<https://x.com/ethereumJoseph/status/1930080358118175046>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/SeaMonkey82 shares a cool tool for consolidating validators to 0x02 credentials securely</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1lf2dej/daily_general_discussion_b_d_y/myprzl4/)

YES!  Finally, a tool for withdrawal credential upgrades and consolidation that has an airgapped mode.  

<https://github.com/Luganodes/pectra-cli>

Thanks for calling this to my attention, /u/nixorokish

</details>
