---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-02-21
episode: 100
guest: Patricio Worthalter
guest_topic: "[POAP](https://poap.xyz/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1iukyyr/comment/mdzmtjg/
podcast_link: 
poap_link: https://poap.gallery/drops/185733
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1iukyyr/comment/mdy9pa1/)

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2762.95

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 3,649,991 Ethereans subscribed (+1,283)

[u/SuspiciousConcern](https://reddit.com/u/SuspiciousConcern)

> You had me at ETH.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1itsl6t/comment/mduxzv9/)

*Blockchain arena,*

*Meme coining Argentina,*

*Next come subpoena.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Stats with u/Dreth</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1iukyyr/comment/mdzeskp/)

Hi frens, happy friday.

ETH ETFs had some outflows (13M), BTC ETFs had big outflows (364.8M)

# ETH stats

UTC Timestamp: **2025-02-21T13:17:00Z**

## Price and supply

| Metric                          | Value       |
|:--------------------------------|:------------|
| Current ETH price               | 2,833       |
| 24h change (%)                  | 3.43        |
| Average ETH price over 1 day    | 2,753       |
| Average ETH price over 7 days   | 2,713       |
| Average ETH price over 30 days  | 2,899       |
| Supply at merge                 | 120,521,140 |
| Current supply                  | 120,559,745 |
| Supply differential since merge | 38,604      |
| Total inflation since merge (%) | 0.03        |

## ETF Flow (in millions of USD)

### Summary

| Metric                                  |   Value |
|:----------------------------------------|--------:|
| Total ETF Flow                          |  3166.8 |
| Total ETF Flow over the last 3 days     |    10.5 |
| Total ETF Flow on the last recorded day |   -13.1 |

### ETF Flow (last 3 days)

| Entity    |   2025-02-18 |   2025-02-19 |   2025-02-20 |   Total |
|:----------|-------------:|-------------:|-------------:|--------:|
| Fidelity  |          4.6 |         24.5 |         -2.8 |    26.3 |
| Grayscale |          0   |         -5.5 |        -10.3 |   -15.8 |

#### Sources

- [ultrasound.money](https://ultrasound.money)
- [farside.co.uk](https://farside.co.uk/eth)
- [farside.co.uk ETH ETF full historical tables](https://farside.co.uk/ethereum-etf-flow-all-data/)
- [coinglass.com](https://coinglass.com/)

##### [Previous post](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1itsl6t/daily_general_discussion_february_20_2025/mdsnyu2/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/LogrisTheBard</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ire1mq/daily_general_discussion_february_17_2025/mdcn6gn/)

For my cakeday I give you a Limerick:

There once was a bard on r/ethereum

who held ETH through market delirium.

They did not complain

about the crab market pain

but instead expanded their cranium.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/somedaysitsdark comments on some confusion floating about validators</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1iodft9/comment/mcjbesq/)

There is some confusion floating about as to why too many validators are bad.

Currently, if we hit around 2.1m validators, Ethereum, the network, will fail to finalize.

It's an issue of network traffic and the time it takes to aggregate all the signatures. [EIP-7514](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7514) was implemented to buy us time until we could do something about it. [EIP-7251](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7251) is that something. Its purpose is not simply to allow for compounding of validator rewards, but to reduce the network traffic by allowing large operators to effectively consolidate 64 validators into one.

Here is a nice read on the issue if you are interested: <https://medium.com/@james_gaps/eip-7251-explainer-aa10558b9150>

There is the additional concern that additional staking will further decrease rewards per ETH staked, and increase inflation, and there are talks of trying to address this, but it's not a critical *the network will fail to finalize* issue.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eviljordan has a not-so-evil plan for the community</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ip4x0j/comment/mcpbqsu/)

For those of you worried about the state of Ethereum in general, I highly suggest you get involved somehow, other than just watching the price.

I’m not new to this, but I spent the day participating in the Ephemery Testnet cycling, which led to me working on some other tooling for my testnet-staking setup, which led to questions and conversations with lots of brilliant people in the community across Reddit, CT, Matrix, Telegram, and Discord.

All of this felt really good and gave me a, not renewed because it never left, but… reinforced sense of confidence in the protocol, mission, and people behind it.

These are good, friendly, smart people. At Ethereum’s core, it’s a bunch of nerds trying to build something interesting and important that works. It’s fun to work on this stuff and truly feels like these people are my friends, even though I haven’t met ANY of them IRL. For someone that was born in ‘81 and was on the Internet in its early days, on IRC, in MUDs, on BBSs, and, later, in AOL chat rooms, that’s awesome. This is the same feeling and I love it.

Maybe the real generational wealth was the friends we made along the way 🥲

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu shares Rated's solo staker list has a new home</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ip4x0j/comment/mcqf0rd/)

No better day than Valentine's Day to announce Rated's solo staker list has found a new home at EthStaker ❤️

* Rated's Tweet: <https://x.com/ratedw3b/status/1890403707017392173>
* EthStaker's Tweet: <https://x.com/ethStaker/status/1890401695840063649>
* Blog Post: <https://paragraph.xyz/@ethstaker/ethereum-solo-staker-list-handover-to-ethstaker>
* Reddit Post: <https://reddit.com/r/ethstaker/comments/1ipb8e7/rated_hands_over_ethereum_solo_staker_repository/>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard explains the mechanism behind what could be a new paradigm in decentralised stablecoin design</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ipvxej/daily_general_discussion_february_15_2025/mcv9dl8/)

A normal person investing in assets enters a position by buying the asset and then exits the position by selling the asset. Here in web3 fewer of us every year qualify as normal. You see, market selling means you have to sell, which means you need liquidity to sell into, you are creating taxable events, etc. A less considered alternative to market selling is to buy a 1x short position somehow. If you hold both then as the asset price rides the famous crypto roller coaster the long would make money and the short would lose the same amount of money or vice versa. The result is zero change wrt whatever your short it redeemable in. Monetarily it's very similar to selling the position as long as you can exercise the put. A position that is not subject to price volatility is called [delta neutral](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/d/deltaneutral.asp).

There's a few fun advantages to this. As mentioned above, it might allow you to defer a taxable event on the asset being sold until long term capital gains would kick in which is useful even if the option comes at a premium. In addition to this, what if the token you would be selling was interest bearing? By continuing to hold it you continue to collect interest. As long as the interest on the long exceeds the cost to borrow or premium on the put you're now profiting from a carry trade. [I wrote about a different variety of a carry trade](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/harvesting-interest-rate-spreads) a few years ago which may be worth revisiting to see how it has played out. There's a few other facts worth noting here as well.

First, while I did say to buy a 1x short position, you are going to almost certainly use the long position as a collateral to borrow and create a 1x short position. This saves you from needing to come up with more capital. If you use a money market to execute the max short you can walk away with the stablecoins but you probably can't actually get to a delta neutral position due to LTV (loan to value) caps. This is still a nice option but there are risks I talk about in the post linked above. Otherwise you can use a variety of leverage platforms to get that LTV up to 100% and actually be delta neutral but you won't be able to withdraw the stablecoins.

This brings me to the second useful fact. The cost to short crypto is usually less than the cost to long due to the industry being generally bullish over the years. Case in point, this is why that icETH token is still making money years later. This fact is dead obvious if you looking at the funding rates on perpetual swap platforms. When [this line](https://cryptoquant.com/asset/eth/chart/derivatives/funding-rates?exchange=all_exchange&window=DAY&sma=0&ema=0&priceScale=log&metricScale=linear&chartStyle=column) is above zero, it means you can get paid taking a short position.

Combined, you are now in a position where you are making money on both the collateral and the short position of your delta neutral portfolio. That is just wild. So instead of selling your crypto, invoking a taxable event, and making stablecoin yield you can instead enter a delta neutral position, forfeit any profit from price appreciation, but retain collateral + funding rate yield while deferring a taxable event on the crypto collateral for as long as you like.

An astute reader will be asking themselves what is preventing someone from just buying crypto and entering such a position immediately from stablecoins? Nothing at all. You can do exactly that. If you do this with ETH you are giving up the stablecoin yield which is most likely sourced in some way from US treasuries in exchange for staking + funding rate yield. This can be advantageous in certain macro environments such as when fed interest rates are low and it's a risk-on environment with a lot of demand for leverage so the funding rates are high.

Of course [someone](https://docs.ethena.fi/) has already tokenized this idea so you don't have to manage the short position yourself and worry about brief fluctuations in the LST peg or funding rates. For a delta neutral position the most natural denomination is in whatever you are delta neutral to. This is going to most commonly be USD so the token wrapper around this position is a stablecoin.

This leads us to a new paradigm for stablecoin design. Consider stablecoin designs to date. How do they protect their peg in order to be stable? I see three basic mechanisms in play all of which lead to problems constraining adoption.

1) Redeemable reserves. These have the hardest peg but are ultimately only as strong as the underlying asset they are redeemable for. Stablecoins such as USDC are backed by treasuries and redeemable for USD so they are subject to government default/control. Furthermore, Circle can just blacklist your address. Stablecoins backed by USDC such as FRAX inherit this problem. LUSD/BOLD are backed by redeemable ETH collateral which leads to a hard peg but the redemptions force borrowers to maintain terrible LTV ratios which limits adoption.

2) Dynamic rates. USDS/DAI and similar coins are all borrowed into existence. They retain their peg by manipulating supply and demand of the token using variable interest rates. This leads to two problems. First, the interest rates are usually subject to intervention which is fallible. Second, the price experiences significant short term depegs before interest rate changes can kick in and restore the peg over a matter of days/weeks.

3) Revenue. Tokens like alUSD are backed by revenue from the collateral assets. This has proven to provide a relative weak peg and we regularly see tokens like this multiple percent off their peg. This is not a hallmark of a stablecoin and obviously limits their adoption as a token to hold for stable value.

Some tokens combine more than one of these approaches. For example crvUSD combines both reserves and programmatic adjustments to interest rates.

Contrast this with a stablecoin wrapping a delta neutral position which I'll call dnUSD which could be backed by any interest bearing collateral for which there is enough depth in options/perpetuals markets for any like-kind asset.

1) Unlike USDC, Circle can't blacklist an address. dnUSD isn't derived from USD in any way therefore the US government default on US treasury bills or seize the underlying reserves.

2) There is no need for a DAO to set or manipulate rates. The only rates are the collateral rate (e.g. staking) and the funding rate both of which are set by wider market forces that are difficult to manipulate.

3) Like LUSD this should be redeemable for the underlying but without the terrible UX to borrowers and LTV inefficiencies. This creates the necessary stability for adoption as a stablecoin.

4) Unlike borrowed stablecoins which are limited to scale with the demand for leverage, dnUSD adds revenue from the collateral. This enables to scale beyond the 0 funding rate line as far negative as the interest from the collateral. This is mathematically more scalable.

So what started as a way to potentially defer a taxable event to reduce tax obligations led to potentially the best pattern we have seen for a truly decentralized stablecoin once we wrapped the position in a token. That's actually rather profound.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth explains why Solana's TPS numbers are bullshit and how by Solana's own fake metrics, Ethereum has even higher "TPS"</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ire1mq/daily_general_discussion_february_17_2025/mdbholw/)

Apparently people in the crypto community and r/cc subreddit are catching up with the absurd numbers of Solana I've been posting here about on the last 2 months. In summary:

Solana inflates its reported transaction throughput and revenue metrics by including *Vote and Compute Budget transactions*, which make up 90-95% of total transactions. These are not real user-initiated transactions but rather validator votes and helper function transactions, so basically it's boosting network activity.

Of the peak 4k TPS we discussed last time, we usually discounted voting transactions leaving us with 1.2k TPS or so.

We also know that only 60% of those actually succeed, giving us 720 TPS... But guess what... *1 in 3* of those transactions would actually be considered transactions in Ethereum. 2 thirds are actually validators paying other validators to vote on consensus, and users setting transaction fees, so really no actual end user transfer of value.

This puts Solana, nowadays at roughly 250 TPS. For reference Ethereum L1 and L2s do 210 TPS nowadays... While being actually decentralized and censorship resistant... And this has been only revisiting the TPS numbers I had run before but fee revenue is likely also impacted.

Honestly at this point whoever thinks to bring up the damn 3 front war FUD from Bankless can be fully called out. 

DA is going to be won in 2025, Execution Layer was not even a challenge, and when your asset is the preferred crypto to use as collateral, moneyness is won.

The only thing ETH is currently not good for is speculation and store of value (in comparison to the appreciation of Bitcoin, because of different issuance models).

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ire1mq/daily_general_discussion_february_17_2025/mdbmtez/)

For reference, the Ethereum network is already processing between 2 and 2.5k attestations per second (1 block per 12 seconds, 900,000 active validators, roughly 28000 attestations per block)

Solana's claims would be equivalent to us counting those attestations towards TPS of the Ethereum chain. We just don't do it because it would be a stupid metric in terms of measuring *real* activity in the chain.

We could also count peer to peer transactions which, assuming 50 to 100 peers per node, would require to count block proposals, transaction gossip and syncing updates, so anywhere between 250 and 500 TPS.

This is not even considering whatever happens in the execution layer of L2s.

Basically if we count like Solana does, we have roughly 3000 TPS on L1 only already. The thing is that the design is simply *better* for decentralization. It keeps consensus and execution isolated and with that it allows Ethereum to have 100% uptime for years as opposed to downtimes in Solana.

But Ethereum never claims to have 3k TPS, Solana does. Ethereum actually scales TPS through L2s too... They are two different models, but only one of them is giving us deceiving numbers.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pbrody makes the case that Ethereum has already won</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1is6u0b/daily_general_discussion_february_18_2025/mdfind8/)

I would like to pull a comment from the another thread I saw online and address it here. Someone said they feel like Ethereum is dying on the inside. It is not. We are struggling with winning. 

Ethereum won and I keep saying this and I am mystified as to why others don't see this. We won. Solana had it's meme-coin moment. And now it's over. I think Ethereum is having a hard time wiht the part about not being underdogs anymore. 

We're not underdogs. We're not revolutionaries. We're the establishment now. It's out job to steward this amazing ecosystem so it is serves everyone. So that it stays decentralized and censorship resistant and monopoly resistant and we don't consume ourselves with infighting and fragmentation. 

Next time you are tempted to complain about how bad things are - such as the price of ETH - put them in some CONTEXT. The price of ETH is low because we were WILDLY successful at increasing capacity. Those low prices combined with great security are now luring in new waves of institutional buyers and users. 

That's my .02USDC ❤️

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Bergmannskase brings us a beam chain update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1is6u0b/daily_general_discussion_february_18_2025/mderjlo/)

If you didn't like the name Beam chain, now is the time to come up with suggestions. Apparently the word "Beam" is trademarked somehow

<https://xcancel.com/drakefjustin/status/1891756928801354030>

From Justin Drake's tweet if you are interested:

>**beam call #1—progress at the social layer**
> 
> <https://youtube.com/watch?v=sSx6juIu4AI>
> 
>→ intros from 8 new beam teams
> 
>→ comments from the 6 mainnet CL teams
> 
>→ intros from 2 new EF coordinators

[Table showing all new CL teams](https://i.imgur.com/YFkwjq2.jpeg)


>Outstanding diversity across 14 CL teams:
> 
>→ all continents covered (except Antartica)
> 
>→ new languages (Zig, C, C++, C#)
> 
>→ new self-funded teams
> 
>Some say the most bullish thing for Ethereum is to be understood. I believe this applies to the guts of Ethereum L1 too. The beam chain is a natural onboarding point for teams of devs who would appreciate every line of spec and every minute implementation detail.
> 
>Beam call #2 (Feb 28 at 2pm UTC) will focus on technical progress, e.g. post-quantum signatures. Calls are open—DM me for a calendar invite :)
> 
>Apologies for withholding beam updates on Twitter til now. I kept a low profile after receiving a cease-and-desist from a project that trademarked the word "beam".
> 
>We need to move away from "beam". I see this as an opportunity for a more decentralised branding process. Please DM @ladislaus0x with name suggestions :)
> 
>Zooming out, this is potentially the beginning of a multi-year mission to radically upgrade the foundations of Ethereum L1 and prepare it for decades to come. It's humbling to see a small army of builders rise to the occasion, and I can't be more pleased by the amount of social and technical progress in the few months since Devcon.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/physalisx is concerned about blob fees while u/Ethical-trade makes the case in favour of exponential scaling through blobs, despite the short term fee revenue loss</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ipvxej/daily_general_discussion_february_15_2025/mcvu6gs/)

[u/physalisx](https://reddit.com/u/physalisx):

Seeing blob fees coming back down from slight-above-nothing to effectively-nothing (1 wei, right now) is making me increasingly bearish on Ethereum's whole scaling plans. We are now 3 and a half months "at blob target" yet so far no noteworthy fees are being paid for it, indicating that there is simply not enough demand for Ethereum L2 transactions to even sustainably fill the current limit. 

I've predicted back in October that we'd likely not see a lasting fee market for blobs until Pectra. Seeing this unfortunately more and more likely (time is running out), I predict that we won't see a lasting blob fee market until Fusaka either, and with the exponential scaling that comes with Fusaka and PeerDAS, we won't see a lasting blob fee market anytime soon after that either. So where does that leave us? No DA income to be expected for the next few years, at best? Can someone remind me why this is good, again? 

I've always thought hard forking in fixed blob targets is a bad and hacky solution to begin with. The only thing we should fixate by consensus is the blob limit, but the blob target should be dynamic between 0 and blob limit and only grow (or shrink) when that target gets continuiously exceeded in either direction, ensuring that appropriate L1 fees are paid. Same goes for the gas limit/target on L1, for that matter.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ipvxej/daily_general_discussion_february_15_2025/mcvvp5q/)

[u/Ethical-trade](https://reddit.com/u/Ethical-trade):

" So where does that leave us?"
That leaves us with a platform that sends a message to the market. The message reads "settle on Ethereum like Sony, Coinbase, Deutsche Bank and Kraken do, it will cost close to nothing and you'll make tons of money".

I believe that you're ignoring the part where several major institutions are currently building rollups that we don't know about yet. Each institution is able to bring millions of users, and will do the marketing for Ethereum. And many more are debating whether to do it or not.

Had the blob market been saturated, management teams would have decided that Ethereum isn't the right choice for their plans.

If I could snap my fingers and 100x the number of blobs, I'd do just that.

Monetizing 1,000s of successful rollups will bring an incredible amount of revenue to Ethereum without being expensive for users. This is what Ethereum is being built for, not to make investors a quick buck at the expense of builders and users and then the only truly decentralized blockchain fails.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog has an update on Aztec protocol and their private rollup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1is6u0b/daily_general_discussion_february_18_2025/mdegb4c/)

I attended yesterdays Aztec solo staking community call. For those who do not know, Aztec is a privacy preserving zkRollup on Ethereum which uses their own programming language called Noir to be able to write privacy preserving smart contracts.

Overall, there was not too much information on the call, but here are some of the interesting points:

Aztec is slowly preparing for their mainnet launch (this year?). They just established a non-profit foundation in Switzerland which does research, supports builders and maintain their programming language. They will provide grants and ensure community involvement in decisions. There will be governance which uses a 'hypothetical Asset'. Wen token? ;-)

They want to decentralize as much as possible, this means they want to have solo stakers involved in their rollup. As far as I understand there are two kinds of nodes: 

1) Validator Nodes (or sequencers). This can be run on consumer hardware at home.

2) Prover Nodes. This is for specialised hardware in a data center.

The exact hardware requirements are not defined yet. There was some discussion about high bandwidth requirements for node operators, but nothing is set in stone yet. At the moment it sounds like if you struggle with bandwidth for a mainnet node already, you might not be able to participate as a node operator on Aztec.

There will also be a stake you have to provide, but the exact amount and the rewards are also a work in progress. 

At the end of Q1 they plan to get the public testnet up and running. It will run on Sepolia. This might be a great opportunity to test the waters and see if it makes sense  to run a node. At the moment they have a permissioned devnet, so nothing to test yet as a node operator.

They have docs about running a node, but they are very minimal at the moment: <https://docs.aztec.network/run_node>

I am looking forward to have a privacy preserving rollup to play around with. I love their emphasis on decentralisation. I am not too familiar with their programming toolchain to judge what the barrier to entry is for devs. 

They have a discord and other channels to keep up with their development: <https://linktr.ee/aztecprotocol>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 decided to do a deep dive on Aztec Protocol</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1iszigs/daily_general_discussion_february_19_2025/mdl34wj/)

Yesterday u/haurog [shared an update on aztec](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1is6u0b/comment/mdegb4c/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button). Aztec is a very important project, but because it is privacy focussed it works differently than other rollups. I had some questions, but we both weren't 100% sure how it works... So I have done some digging today ([mainly using the official docs](https://docs.aztec.network/aztec)) and wanted to share my learnings with you. 

In Aztec there is public and private state. As stated yesterday I believe both public and private state is needed to allow for more than just transactions, e.g. swaps, lending/ borrowing etc. Only of the balance of two assets in an AMM is public, you know the price. If it was private, the swap can't be done. Only if the balance of an asset (and the APY) you want to borrow is public, you can actually borrow it. Why? Because only if the information is public, you as the user can create a valid zk proof for these transactions. 

So how do private and public transactions work together?

Private transactions are client-side only. What does that mean? The user starts a transaction (e.g. sending ETH to a friend) and creates a zk proof for it. If you interacted with Aztec 2 or 3 years ago, you might remember that back then transactions took some time. I believe back then it was the same thing: you first had / have to create a zk proof of the transaction, meaning you proof that you have the funds to send. That takes time because the creation of a zk proof is still a lot of compute (at least compared to non zk execution). Then send the zk proof without any inputs (your own balance, your public key, the receiving public key) to the public side of the rollup, in this case to the aztec node = the sequencer. The sequencer includes your transaction in a block and later that block is settled on Ethereum mainnet. 

So how does the receiver know that I sent them funds? Aztec uses a UTXO model for that. With the zk proof the sender also creates a UTXO representing the funds. This UTXO is also forwarded to the sequencer for inclusion in the rollup. It is encrypted and only the receiver can decrypt it. If the receiver "sees" a UTXO for them, they can spend it by nullifying it, by proving ownership of it, nullifying it and creating a new UTXO for the next recipient. 

So how can I do a private transaction that touches public state without revealing it is me, e.g. swapping ETH for USD? 

Private transactions that trigger public functions, like swaps on a DEX. The setup seems to be very similar: 

You create a zk proof on the client side that shows you have the funds to make the swap and what you should receive from the AMM. You send the zk proof and a UTXO for the swap to the roll up nodes. The nodes job is then to execute the public functions and to hence to execute the swap, adding the UTXO balance to the pool and creating a new UTXO with the funds the initiator is supposed to receive. 

But the nodes create the UTXO and hence know who the receiver is? This means its's not private anymore?! Apparently the UTXO is for an anonymous contract, that is somehow controlled by your private address. So it is private indeed. 

So what's the role of the provers? The provers take all transactions of the network, generate zk proofs for them and aggregate these proofs to include them in the rollup and settle them on Ethereum. 

P.S. I have no idea if this is correct, most of the time I have no idea what I am doing, especially when it comes to tech/ black magic, so please take this with a grain of salt!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog shares Treebeard's block visualizer app</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1is6u0b/daily_general_discussion_february_18_2025/mdejlni/)

Treebeard, an EVMaverick, built an amazing emoji block visualizer. Every transaction is categorized and depicted with an emoji. We can see uniswap trades, beacon deposits, contract creation, token transfers, nft transfers, opensea sales, blob transactions, approvals, and uncategorized contract interactions. It is fascinating to see the activity in such a compact fashion. It gives you a very different perspective on the chain activity and its actors. Have a look at it: <https://www.emojiblocks.com/>

It reminds me a bit of the txstreet visualization from way back when, but much more informative: <https://txcity.io/v/eth-btc>

</details>
