---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-09-12
episode: 124
guest: Brian Smocovich
guest_topic: "[Pistachio.fi](https://www.pistachio.fi/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/WhkDabVcU1
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1neugb4/comment/ndrju05/)

[u/ETHdude8686](https://reddit.com/u/ETHdude8686)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $4,531.45

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> 0.0391

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nakiuk/comment/ncz3c1d/)

*The settlement streak,*

*Will continously tweak,*

*Let the ledger speak.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/USERNAME_ERROR</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nbewdn/comment/nd2mf1h/)

Is there a better proof that Ethereum is the place for stablecoins than the price action of ETH itself?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/MinimalGravitas summarises what Ethereum's endgame looks like</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n819ik/daily_general_discussion_september_04_2025/nccqxsy/)

In a reply to a comment under the regular 'EF are selling' FUD post on r/cc I tried to lay out a simplification of what the end state of Ethereum will like... (i.e. when the EF no longer needs to exist).


I'd not really tried to put it together before, so I'd love some feedback on what else I have missed or on any points that I've either got wrong or lost meaning through oversimplification?

-------

* **Single-slot Finality** - so transactions are locked in and irreversible as soon as they are included on-chain;

* **Quantum Safe Cryptography** - for signatures and STARKification of the EVM;

* **Rollup Interoperability** - meaning L2 users will have access to any dApps and all liquidity across the ecosystem;

* **Sharded scaling of blobspace** - increasing the total throughput of the rollups to effectively arbitrarily high numbers of transactions;

* **Transaction Preconfirmations, Forced Inclusion Lists, and Fully Decentralized Block Production** - making censorship by block proposers literally impossible;

* **Encrypted mempool and 'delay encryption'** - so targeted censorship becomes impossible for validators, even in the event of a worst case 67% attack;

* **History and State Expiry** - requirements for nodes are reduced to negligible levels, meaning every wallet for every user can connect to the chain directly without any need for RPCs;

* **Endgame Account Abstraction** - which will mean anyone can set up maximally secure self-custody wallets without needing to know anything about private keys or seed phrases.


-------

How can I improve this for when I use it again?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Old_Many_7493 is looking for beginner ETH vs BTC content and u/Papazio delivers!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n819ik/daily_general_discussion_september_04_2025/ncce6la/)

[u/Old_Many_7493](https://reddit.com/u/Old_Many_7493):

First post ever , lurking since 2017 :) hi fam ! Just wanted to share my story talking to a friend about his future investments into btc : looks like people have zero clue about what they are buying both fundamentally and technically what leads to repeating maxi fud straight from start of the conversation . Even after 3 hours talking and explaining what is the difference there was just slightly more interest in ethereum as it seems it’s too complicated to understand for someone not interested in the mechanics. The information asymmetry is unreal ! Looking for a true neutral reliable source comparing today’s ethereum network to the btc network without being biased to one side while considering zero background knowledge on blockchain. Bankless won’t cut it ;) but a podcast would be perfect !

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n819ik/daily_general_discussion_september_04_2025/ncche0d/)

[u/Papazio](https://reddit.com/u/Papazio):

Howdy! 

I think that today only approximately 1% of people with exposure to BTC or ETH could actually compare and contrast the technical differences, and that’s not as bad as it sounds. A far greater number of people can compare and contrast what each one does, and that’s okay. For someone to be comfortable in having exposure to either/both, they just need to know that they are divergent and no technical knowledge is needed for that. 

If I were in your shoes I’d point the friend to this 8 year old video from Andreas Antonopoulos titled The Lion & The Shark. He hits on the non determinate path of development (even away from founder’s intent) and the tradeoffs that are made by development decisions, as well as other great analogies. 

<https://youtu.be/d0x6CtD8iq4>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains the World Liberty Finance vs Justin Sun drama</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n819ik/daily_general_discussion_september_04_2025/ncii1ua/)

I am observing it from the sidelines eating popcorn. 

It all starten end of November 2024 when Justin invested 30 million into WLFI. He was the single largest investor back then and more or less breathed life into a failing ICO. I think most people agree that the WLFI ICO is just a direct way to send money to the Trump family. That the charges against Justin Sun by the SEC got dropped by the end of February might be a happy coincidence or not. Who knows.

This week, 20% of the WLFI tokens got unlocked. Everyone who sold on the first day made good money on the ICO. Justin Sun publicly pledged to not sell any of his tokens as WLFI is one of the most important projects in crypto and even pushes USD1, the WLFI associated stablecoin, onto Tron. Justin then announced that people staking (i.e. locking) WLFI tokens on his HTX exchange earn 20% APY in WLFI tokens. It is said, that Justin Sun sold these locked tokens from the HTX stakers to indirectly sell all of his own tokens (20% unlocked and 80% locked ones). The alleged plan is to just reimburse the HTX stakers with Justins vested tokens when the HTX stakers can unstake. Pretty clever scheming. Justin also deposited some of his unlocked tokens into HTX, probably for selling them.

Obviously the WLFI team does not want to be outcrimed on their scheming and just locked all of Justin Suns tokens (the unlocked and locked ones). WLFI, which according to them brings freedom to the financial world, is debanking and freezing funds within a few days of its existence. How ironic. Now Justin, the WLFI team and crypto twitter are debating who sold and who held. Twitter 'investigators' are using LLMs to prove Justins innocence. Vibe judging was not on the my bingo cards for this year. Nansen publicly says Justin is not the culprit. I am sure there is no conflict of interest as Nansen is also one of 27 super representatives on Tron (which means they are one of 27 Tron validators). In conclusion it looks like Justin and WLFI are outscheming (outcriming) each other. Justin might have finally met his match. I like popcorn.


Sources:

Justin claiming WLFI is the most important project

[xcancel](https://xcancel.com/justinsuntron/status/1962522143390056830) | [twitter](https://x.com/justinsuntron/status/1962522143390056830)


Nansen clearing Justin: 

[xcancel](https://xcancel.com/ASvanevik/status/1963761428445442341) | [twitter](https://x.com/ASvanevik/status/1963761428445442341)


Justin pleading his side:

[xcancel](https://xcancel.com/justinsuntron/status/1963807543983263802) | [twitter](https://x.com/ASvanevik/status/1963761428445442341)

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n9qybv/daily_general_discussion_september_06_2025/ncqgicd/)

The [WLFI drama](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n819ik/comment/ncii1ua/) is continuing. Justin Sun pledged to buy 10 million $ of WLFI and another 10 million $ of ALT5, the WLFI treasury play. He hopes that these bribes will help him that his funds get unlocked. Sounds like he knows how the game is played. I have not heard any reaction to this by the WLFI team. By the way, I completely forgot that Justin Sun was also an advisor for WLFI after he made his initial purchases. The WLFI team then said that they only froze Justins account to protect their customers and they would not do it for any other reason.

In the meantime, the WLFI team froze a few more wallets. They themselves say they froze 272 wallets. One is from a devrel of polygon. The devrel is not really sure why they did that and he says as it is the presidents family, there is not really a good way to challenge this freezing legally. I see it as a positive that this project seems to be failing spectacularly from the get go. It will limit the influence it will have on the space. 


Sources:

Justin pledging to buy 10 million of Alt5 and WLFI

[xcancel](https://xcancel.com/justinsuntron/status/1963961392295244130) | [twitter](https://x.com/justinsuntron/status/1963961392295244130)


WLFI justifying their blacklisting for protecting users:

[xcancel](https://xcancel.com/worldlibertyfi/status/1964081164408250558) | [twitter](https://x.com/worldlibertyfi/status/1964081164408250558)


WLFI freezing polygon devrels wallet:

[xcancel](https://xcancel.com/coinbureau/status/1964317661753401613) | [twitter](https://x.com/coinbureau/status/1964317661753401613)


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Papazio documents the next entity to be screwed over by World Liberty Finance</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n8wdlc/daily_general_discussion_september_05_2025/ncj37oe/)

So AAVE is in the process of being scammed by WLFI…

Forgive me for being light on the details because I’ve only listened to this on a recent The Chopping Block episode. 

WLFI is/was supposed to be a fork of AAVE and had an agreement proposed in AAVE governance and ratified in WFLI governance for a proportion of initial launch fees to go back to AAVE. Now that WLFI has launched and is worth a stupid number of $b, the \~$2b owed to AAVE is being denied by the WLFI execs and potentially challenged by Stani. 

Maybe the real 10x this cycle has been in politi-finance scams, stupid us for sticking with the tech eh?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/alexiskef shares Paradigm not making sense in an effort to pump their VC bags</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n9qybv/daily_general_discussion_september_06_2025/ncp94lc/)

Paradigm on why Tempo instead of an L2..

"But building a network for global payments will require bringing together thousands of partners that may not trust us, or Stripe, or anyone as a platform. We think a decentralized validator set—for the chain itself—is a necessary requirement for those partners, and to ensure that the chain is unquestionably neutral in the long run"

I have read this five times. My head will explode 🤯. Partners may not trust them, so their plan is NOT to build on the only truly neutral / decentralized network, but to.. create something that they control.. And to top it off, start with a.. permissioned validator set.. And.. trust me bro, "we'll decentralize it asap.." 😂

And fyi, [this was taken ](https://x.com/matthuang/status/1902562363532046674) just 6 months ago... Take a look at the tagged names.. half of them are the cream of the crop of the Ethereum community... They either completely missed this coming, were played, or (increasingly so) we are the naive ones who have no idea what is going on..

Am I reading this wrong?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Hot-Sentence-4706 tells us a cautionary tale</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1n9qybv/daily_general_discussion_september_06_2025/ncqj6eq/)

A cautionary tale

One of my soft wallets has ended up with more ETH than I had anticipated and I can’t move it until I can wind down a defi position (hopefully soon…).  I also actively use the wallet.

I never intended to hold assets on this wallet - when I set up the wallet, I had intended the wallet to be ultra soft so I never really protected the seed phrase sufficiently.

I thought it was probably “safe” enough for the wallet’s original purpose and had the phrase encoded in a password protected file on an online document drive.

I know this is sub-optimal / bad practice but for the wallet’s original use, I thought this was ok.  It was also a long time ago before I had a safe at home.

Anyway, I had decided to delete all references to the seed phrase and move the phrase offline into a longer term solution (eg a Cryptosteel capsule in a safe).

When I was going through today and erasing the password protected file, I discovered the seed phrase was also saved in an unprotected text document right by the password protected file…

Hopefully I was fortunate here and I will move the assets off this wallet when I get the chance but this is a cautionary tale that over time plans change and what we thought might have been safe for the original purpose, may no longer be the case.  We might also forget some of the obvious insecurities when files were set up.

Keep safe and remember (unlike me) that we should always try to adopt best and secure practices.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/coinanon thinks that a co-founder of a platform Stripe acquired simply doesn't get decentralisation and u/rhythm_of_eth thinks that their strategy is doomed to fail</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nakiuk/daily_general_discussion_september_07_2025/ncveyey/)

[u/coinanon](https://reddit.com/u/coinanon):

The latest Bankless podcast with a co-founder of Bridge, which is the stablecoin startup that Stripe acquired, makes it clear why Stripe is creating their own layer 1. He is from tradfi and talks about blockchains as a generic term with zero interest in decentralization. He said literally “even the blockchain that everybody loves, Solana…” and talks about trying to use Stellar and Solana as if they’re decentralized blockchains. He also kept trying to insist that Tempo is not a Stripe blockchain somehow. 

My interpretation is that they’re not crypto natives, so they don’t fully understand decentralization. I hope that they will learn and become an L2.

I think this episode gets released to non-subscribers on Monday, though.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nakiuk/daily_general_discussion_september_07_2025/ncvgz34/)

[u/rhythm_of_eth](https://reddit.com/u/rhythm_of_eth):

This is such a classic enterprise move.

Try to create a consortium by establishing a satellite project that you control but pretend not to control and try and see if competitors take the bait.

It never works out. Never. It always ends as a fragmented ecosystem (thousands of banks) or alternatively an oligopolistic market (i.e. VISA/Mastercard/Amex). 

The thing is that counterparty risk and liquidity fragmentation won't be solved in either of those outcomes. 

Tempo is not a risk to the bet inherently embedded in Ethereum (a trustless, decentralized, fully liquid settlement layer with massive network effects) because the premise of its existence is simply a power grab move... It's not even playing in the same axis.

> My interpretation is that they’re not crypto natives, so they don’t fully understand decentralization. I hope that they will learn and become an L2.

Funnily enough a few crypto natives are part of the project. But they are basically playing a value extract game with Stripe imho. Tempo will never be an L2. It will either die down or will be a suboptimal implementation of a normal database.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Itur_ad_Astra thinks that strategic ETH reserve companies could do a bit more for ETH the asset</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nbewdn/daily_general_discussion_september_08_2025/nd3twor/)

I wonder whether all the SER companies investing billions in ETH have done any investigation on the ROI of just buying, versus buying and, at the same time, ***advertising*** ETH.

It's just a guess, but I believe the second option would be far more profitable. Personally, I would set aside 5-10% of the stack as a "promoting and marketing" fund. Coupled with the buys, there's no way a dollar invested in this won't return more than a dollar in the future.

And I'm not just talking about shilling to retail. B2B promotion and showcasing why ETH should be chosen over its rivals is also "marketing".

What do you guys think? Could this be in the cards for the future? If I was Tom Lee, and I was aware of the massive FUD campaigns against ETH, the insane levels of ignorance concerning the technology, and the huge advertising budgets of its rivals (imo most L1 "foundations" do zero tech research and are just marketing companies with a side of slush fund for the founders) there's no way I wouldn't be considering this.

On the other hand, maybe it's something that must take place *after* the buys are done. Or maybe they've done their homework and concluded that marketing is unnecessary, because ETH has already won.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Fiberpunk2077 covers the huge growth in the validator exit queue and u/haurog explains the full story behind it</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nd5ce8/daily_general_discussion_september_10_2025/nde9iyd/)

[u/Fiberpunk2077](https://reddit.com/u/Fiberpunk2077):

The validator exit/withdrawal queue has jumped up to 1.6M ETH on beaconcha.in and 2.0M ETH on pectrified due to Kiln exiting all their validators out of an abundance of caution after the Solana incident with SwissBorg.

<https://xcancel.com/Kiln_finance/status/1965543048689193100>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nd5ce8/daily_general_discussion_september_10_2025/ndeitwp/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

The Kiln staking exit is an interesting one. Two days ago, SwissBorg, a Swiss crypto exchange, got ~190k (~$40M) SOL stolen from their earn product. Apparently someone got access to the API of Kiln, their SOL staking provider. It is not quite clear yet who is at fault, but it looks like something got compromised in between SwissBorg and Kiln. This made Kiln worried about the integrity of their infrastructure and they decided to exit all their Ethereum validators as well. There is no indication that the ETH staked through Kiln is in danger of being stolen.

Kiln is the biggest staking provider on Ethereum. According to rated.network they have 5.25% of all staked ETH under their service. Half of the ETH is from their own customers, and the other half is through, Ledger Live and Enterprise, Coinbase, Swell and Enzyme. 

It looks like that at the moment they exited around 1M ETH from the beacon chain. They have 800k more ETH staked on their infrastructure. Maybe they will exit the remaining ones as well, or maybe they are staked differently and not planned to be exited. It is pretty obvious that Kiln will redeposit the ETH after they changed whatever needs to be changed on their infrastructure. Not sure if customers will get reimbursed for lost staking rewards or not. Will be interesting to see if they redeposit as large validators (2048 ETH) or keep small validators (32 ETH). But either way, the deposit queue will get massive in the coming months. 

Sources:

Swissborg hack:

<https://swissborg.com/blog/joint-statement-kiln-x-swissborg-regarding-sol-incident>


Kiln Validator exit:

<https://www.kiln.fi/post/kiln-responds-to-infrastructure-issue-with-validator-exit-funds-remain-protected>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 shares the other consensus layer slashings and explains SSV then u/haurog provides more info about the slashings</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nd5ce8/daily_general_discussion_september_10_2025/ndg88y2/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

40 validators have been slashed today so far, most of them attributed to Ankr. All the slashed validators were run on SSV.

Lido has chosen to exercise caution and asked its node operators to temporarily shut down their SSV nodes while SSV is investigating.

Will keep you posted as this evolves. If you're running any SSV nodes yourself, you may want to take them offline temporarily while this is being investigated (depending on your risk appetite).

Update: This incident seems to have been caused by an [operational mistake by Ankr and was not caused by SSV](https://x.com/AmMuroch/status/1965808477680665047).

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nd5ce8/daily_general_discussion_september_10_2025/ndgatuz/)

[SSV](https://ssv.network/) is a network that allows validators to be run in a distributed way (using DVT, distributed validator technology). A validator is basically split up among different node operators who each only get access to a "part" of the validator key. That way, no single node operator has access to the full validator private key. That also means no single node operator can get the validator slashed.

What DVT doesn't mean is that the validator absolutely cannot get slashed, as evidenced here.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1nd5ce8/daily_general_discussion_september_10_2025/ndh2x7x/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

All the slashed validators have pretty low validator numbers. Not exactly genesis validators, but pretty close to it (within a few months). According to the block graffiti they seem to have changed quite a bit over time: First they the graffiti was "Powered", then at the end of 2021 it switched to "StakeFi". The graffiti changed to a more generic Consensus client version at the end of 2022. The last change was in December 2023 when the graffiti switched to SSV.Network. That is pretty much the start of ssv.network on mainnet. According to beaconcha.in it is part of the Ankr staking pool. From what I have seen they have been slashed for double attestation. Until now, this normally happened when keys have been running on more than one machine. 

In my understanding SSV has two different ways to generate a distributed key. One can either generate a new set of keys for a non existing validator or one can split an existing validator key. From how old the slashed validators are, we know the validator keys must have existed and it was split afterwards. This means that the original validator key might still exist and could be reactivated by accident. Could also be that they just started another ssv cluster with the already split keys. Almost all the slashings have been accidental activations of validator keys on two different machines. 

As long as there is not more detail from the node runners we obviously can't know what exactly happened, but I would guess that there is a bigger chance that the validator keys have been accidentally activated on another machine than any other reason. Lucky for them this happened after Pectra or the slashing penalties would have been worse.

UPDATE: After posting and updating I saw the update by eth2353 on the issue. Seems like they really just ran the keys on more than one machine or cluster.

</details>
