---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-10-31
episode: 130
guest: Kenny
guest_topic: "[POIDH](https://poidh.xyz/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/Ck7uWbg4JM
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oklwym/comment/nmblcoe/)

[u/Main_Independence394](https://reddit.com/u/Main_Independence394)

> ethereum

[u/EthereumBuddy](https://reddit.com/u/EthereumBuddy)

> $3,848

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0350


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oivv23/comment/nm3a9bv/)

*Expectation buff,*

*The Staked ETF hot stuff,*

*Cut rates deep enough.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/HauntedJockStrap88</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oivv23/comment/nm0cxml/)

What if demand just goes up from here? Maybe because of massive ETH adoption? Like maybe if we were bringing large chunks of global payments/settlement on chain? And while that was happening we knew what the supply would do because it’s programmed? I bet you could make a pretty strong bet on price then, huh?

Idk tho. It would also help if we knew that the largest capital pools in the world couldn’t even access ETH until recently, if they even can yet. That’d be cool.

Oh oh I almost forgot. Imagine if the Government planned on cutting rates over the next 15 Months? That’d be pretty nice I think.

I wish. Lads and ladies it’s never been more over than it is now. Octover. Novembear. De-semblance of hell. I sold all my ETH to buy PLTR. ETH with its shoddy fundamentals and no set up could never go exponential in such a short time. In this market only fundamentally sound assets, like XRP and PLTR can do that.

Good luck to you all.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Decentralizedbanana is sticking around for the long haul, but recognises the frustration from all the narratives which all came true in every way except price</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1odujwf/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2025/nkxzyln/)

I'm as bullish as ever on Ethereum and im not selling until at least 2030 so i can see all this adoption happen and all this tech finally become what we were dreaming about for the last 8+ years.

But me and other people here are losing hope of seeing crazy high prices for ETH.   
And let's break it down instead of just complaining:

In the last 8+ years, remember these sentences?  
- "when institutions will come, we will be rich"  
- "when Ethereum scales successfully with layer2's and the insane fees are gone, massive price gains will happen"   
- "when we start burning ETH with EIP-1559, the price will skyrocket"  
- "when Ethereum transitions to POS, the 99.9% energy consumption drop and green narrative will finally convince the world to buy ETH"    
- "the 90% issuance drop in ETH from moving to POS, aka the triple halvening will create a supply/demand that will make the price of ETH pump like never before"  
- "when Ethereum enables staking, everyone will buy ETH to stake and the price will go parabolic"   
- "if ETH had a Michael saylor, ETH would be double it's ATH easily"  
(ETH treasury companies now own more % of the supply compared to bitcoin treasuries)  
- "if Ethereum had ETF'S, ETH would be doing as well as BTC"  
- "if Ethereum had a spokesperson to teach everyone about Ethereum, the world would buy ETH"    
(we have etherealize now for a while, huge respect to them)    
- "if Ethereum had someone like Michael saylor to talk about Ethereum on tv and podcasts and interviews, ETH would skyrocket" (we have tom lee now)    

Let's be real, Ethereum has so much things happen that this list is probably way longer.  
And there will be many more bullish catalysts for Ethereum because Ethereum's fundamentals and upgrades and upcoming tech is so huge and amazing.

And there are 2 that i can already think of:  

- "when layer2's start paying for blobs, ETH price will go up"  
- "when ETH ETF'S get staking, tradfi will buy ETH at unseen amounts resulting in huge pumps"  

But i just can't help wondering of that huge list of insane bullish stuff happened and the price is under $4000, then are those 2 new things really going to pump ETH? Or will they be added to the list above, things that are insanely bullish but did nothing for the price...

Again, i remain max bullish for Ethereum and im staying to see this play out because tokenization, stablecoins, ai,... Etc. Is all about to explode and the majority is clearly happening on Ethereum. When all the financial giants are publicly announcing their layer2's and saying tokenization and stablecoins are going to take over the financial world, when trillions of dollars go onchain in the upcoming years, and the exchange ETH reserves going down more than any girl I've ever met, the price of ETH must go up right... There is no way it doesn't, and im fucking staying untill then.

So fuck this depressing dogshit for now, it is what it is, Ethereum is winning, mass adoption is on the horizon, our time will come and ETH will be worth at least 5% more than it is now,...   
we just need a bit more of that agonizing, excruciating, torturous, harrowing, unbearable, insufferable and distressful thing called patience.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ProfStrangelove sheds light on more brazen corruption via crypto rails and u/ElEterElote does a deep dive on the different connections and laws being broken.</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1odujwf/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2025/nl0wqgt/)

[u/ProfStrangelove](https://reddit.com/u/ProfStrangelove):

The wallet that did the big short before the Trump China tweet seems to also have bet on a CZ pardon in 2025 on polymarket... (according to coffezilla - [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JMEJTORMVN4](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JMEJTORMVN4) )

It's absurd what they get away with...

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1odujwf/daily_general_discussion_october_23_2025/nl091sy/)

[u/ElEterElote](https://reddit.com/u/ElEterElote):

Unfortunately if you follow the threads and connections, it's all pretty obvious this is more than alleged. It's ongoing and just starting. We've got to accept this simple fact: the Trump family never placed their business holdings in a blind trust. That means when presidential policies or security decisions benefit Trump-controlled entities, it’s a direct violation of the **Domestic Emoluments Clause**. When those benefits involve foreign actors, such as through crypto ventures, it’s also a violation of the **Foreign Emoluments Clause**. Knowing this to be true...

Trump held a private dinner for the top 220 holders of his meme coin. Early insiders profited from the liquidity, while the Trump Organization earned transaction-fee revenue. That’s effectively pay-to-play access to the presidency.

The Trump family gained majority control of World Liberty Financial (WLF), taking about 75% of net token revenue and 60% of total profit. WLF issues the USD1 stablecoin, backed by U.S. Treasuries.

* WLF (and by extension, the Trump Organization) earns interest on those Treasuries while USD1 stays in circulation. Once redeemed, that interest income stops.

* A state-backed Abu Dhabi fund (MGX) used USD1 to fund a $2B investment in Binance, giving USD1 more legitimacy, float/liquidity, and profit for WLF and Trump.

* Trump just pardoned CZ, Binance’s founder, who still holds influence over the exchange. As long as Binance holds USD1, those tokens continue earning interest for Trump’s business.

A Trump child joined the Polymarket board immediately after the SEC dropped a case against the company. The same child invested heavily in the company beforehand.

Qatari-linked investors have been buying into the meme coin. Two weeks ago, Qatar received U.S. approval to build a Qatar Air Force training facility at Mountain Home Air Force Base in Idaho. The overlap between foreign investment and favorable U.S. policy is hard to ignore.

These are just a couple examples. If you, like me, value democracy over kleptocracy, the rule of law, and despise corruption and those who claim to be above the law, then this isn't *'so what,'* it's incredibly important as it directly impacts our lives and future generations. 

No, we will never get rid of corruption and yes, what pelosi has done along with scores of other Rs and Ds have done and continue to do is unabashedly corrupt. **That these things are also true does not diminish from the fact that blatant corruption, enabled through savvy use of cryptocurrency technology, is taking place in broad daylight, benefiting the most powerful man in the world as he inhabits the highest office in the US government**. Nor does the previous admin's deplorable and secret war on crypto absolve the current or future admins of any responsibility or need to held legally accountable for their actions. *Another's wrong doing is not my blank cheque to offend.*

I understand the frustration that you might feel, seeing people like pelosi in office benefitting from their positions of power, because I feel it too, but the 'what about' argument doesn't hold any water with people like me who can see people doing wrong, who need to be held accountable, *regardless of their political affiliation*.

Please take this seriously, it directly impacts you and future generations.

Edits: phrasing, coherence, details.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/coinanon isn't impressed by the latest Gitcoin UX then u/haochizzle makes a video to help us vote in the Gitcoin Grants Privacy Round</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ogc3ff/daily_general_discussion_october_26_2025/nlljt8f/)

[u/coinanon](https://reddit.com/u/coinanon):

The gitcoin grants donation experience has really gone downhill. I used to donate using their checkout flow, which worked really well.

Now it makes me fill out a form for each project individually... but there are at least 10 projects that I want to donate to. Surely this is leading to fewer donations.

Edit: and apparently you can't donate to one round all on one L2... each project accepts only on certain L2s. How is this better? There's no way this is leading to more donations overall.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ofj1al/daily_general_discussion_october_25_2025/nlb6ie0/)

[u/haochizzle](https://reddit.com/u/haochizzle):

I had a couple of friends (some crypto native themselves) who had trouble with donating and voting for Gitcoin Grants round 24's Privacy round, so I've decided to record a quick, off-the-cuff tutorial on how to bridge ETH to Arbitrum for gas, swap for WETH, donate on Privote, ensure your unique humanity score > 20, and signup as a voter to vote and cast your ballot.   
  
quite a doozy just to donate for public goods right!? i promise you, it's not that hard and won't take more than 10-15 mintues :)  
  
check it out here: [https://youtu.be/5TgTmzSmO5o](https://youtu.be/5TgTmzSmO5o)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth delivers us a weekly ecosystem summary</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oh5v66/daily_general_discussion_october_27_2025/nlo1s34/)

(Thinking of doing weekly reports/updates - turned out quite long, so very open to feedback)

growthepie Weekly Summary (October 20-26, 2025)  
Last week, the Ethereum Ecosystem demonstrated significant progress in scalability, adoption, and community engagement.

Scalability and Performance Insights

* Recently Ethereum Ecosystem Transaction Per Second: Reached an all-time high of 3,100 TPS, up from 2,835 TPS, driven by Base (1,716 TPS), Arbitrum (1,201 TPS), and other Layer 2 solutions. Projections highlighted in our quick bite article indicate potential growth to over 10,000 TPS on Ethereum mainnet and over 1 million TPS within the Ethereum Ecosystem.
* Analysing the impacts of Base lower gas targets (33% vs. 50%) increased monthly transactions by 20% (300M to 360M), though active addresses decreased from 30M to 16M. DeFi transactions grew, and NFT activity rose, suggesting a shift toward organic user engagement.
* World Chain Active Addresses: Surged to a record 120,000 (+58% daily), fueled by Polymarket’s mini-app launch. We will be updating this metric to include user operations, this figure is currently under-reported.

Adoption Metrics

* Ethereum Stablecoin Supply: Grew to $173 billion, a $5.5 billion weekly increase (+96% year-over-year), with mainnet leading adoption, bolstered by its consistent uptime.
* Starknet Stablecoin Growth: Reached $140 million, a 63% increase in 30 days.
* Superform Transaction Growth: Recorded a 1,000% increase in weekly transactions (10,000) and a 258% rise in active addresses (2,800), primarily on Arbitrum One.
* Robinhood Tokenized Stocks: Tracked 489 stocks with $8 million in onchain value, showing steady inflows and growing interest in real-world assets (RWAs).
* Shopify on Base: Maintained consistent daily volumes via the Commerce Payment Protocol, signaling Web3 integration in e-commerce (search “Shopify” on our platform for details).
* a16z State of Crypto Report: Highlighted crypto’s maturation, faster chains, and DeFi mainstreaming, with our data featured prominently.

Community and Ecosystem Discussions

* Polygon PoS Classification: A community poll showed two-thirds support for including Polygon PoS in the Ethereum ecosystem. Our founder emphasized open dialogue with Polygon, with internal discussions on improving classification. (Noting that on reddit less people were in favour)
* GG24 Interop Round: With less than two days remaining, over $100,000 in matching funds support open standards and infrastructure.
* Octant Epoch 9: Top donors supported projects include ZachXBT and TheRageTech.

Additional Notes

* Jovay Network by Alipay: TPS tracking is live.
* Ethereum Reliability: Maintains 100% uptime (for over a decade) despite outages on AWS.
* Branding Note: Our platform is styled as “growthepie” (lowercase). Access our guide via right-clicking our logo.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth outlines Solana's serious issues affecting their validator set right now</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oh5v66/daily_general_discussion_october_27_2025/nlopmfq/)

Solana is having serious issues with their validator set. 

The delegating / staking approach is not working for most of the smaller in scale validators and they have been turning fees to 100% and grifting users just to get by.

Solana representatives go on to declare that "cutting the fat" is net positive for the chain, and kicking them (through a Discord message lmao)

Sure, your already heavily centralized validator set is shrinking further, economic viability is no longer there unless SOL does 100% YoY, and apparently centralizing further is the way to go.

This is like the Bitcoin mining competition theory but weirdly applied to PoH/PoS.

Unless SOL pumps like crazy or Solana finds a killer story like pump.fun, I'm pretty sure it's a steady decline from here.

So much for the Ethereum killer, the three front war, etc etc.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog farewells the Holesky testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oh5v66/daily_general_discussion_october_27_2025/nlnkidz/)

The Holesky testnet is in its [final stages](https://xcancel.com/parithosh_j/status/1980282937766449421). The planned shut down is this week. Some large validators just shut down their nodes and about an hour ago we just went below the finality threshold (<https://light-holesky.beaconcha.in/epochs>). The test network might not be usable within a few days. Holesky was running for 2 years and has had a rocky life. First the genesis had to be redone due to a configuration error, and the pectra upgrade issues in spring made the network unusable for the intended purpose of testing staking setups. Nevertheless, the network helped making clients more resilient against large scale outages, which was great to see. For anyone testing their staking setup the Hoodi testnet has been the replacement since spring and for smart contract deployments and rollup testing Sepolia is still doing great.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 briefs us on the imminent Hoodi testnet Fusaka upgrade</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oh5v66/daily_general_discussion_october_27_2025/nlnhby4/)

The Hoodi testnet goes through the Fusaka network upgrade tomorrow!

Previous testnet upgrades (Holesky, Sepolia) went flawlessly. Hoodi is a bit different with validators run by a more diverse set of node operators. Still, things are expected to go smoothly tomorrow.

If everything goes well, we may see a confirmation of the Fusaka mainnet upgrade data as early as next week.

|    |    |
|:-----------|------------:|
| Epoch        |          50688 |
| Unix timestamp  |    1761677592 |
| UTC activation time       |        2025-10-28 18:53:12 UTC|

If you're running nodes on Hoodi, make sure to update them in time!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Twelvemeatballs checks in from Argentina again, today testing a few apps before using an Ethereum app for everyday commerce</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oivv23/daily_general_discussion_october_29_2025/nlzwang/)

Buenos días! Another update. I have cash in my pocket and although direct payments using USDC seems to be nonexistent, I wanted to try out the local apps/wallets, built in Argentina, that can help me out.   

Lemon Cash and Belo require national identity number from a South American country, so that's ou. Ripio lists six countries, including Mexico and USA, which said "residents and non-residents". I started their KYC which accepted my Euro-credentials but the next step required a W8BEN, and as I really don't feel like talking to the IRS at this time, I opted out.   

The clear winner was Peanut App, not restricted by residence (in fact, I don't think it asked for any residential info at all) and a very straight forward KYC based on identity document of various types. I was approved within a few minutes and able to send USDC on Arb which I immediately spent on a croissant at a coffee shop. Many(most?) places here accept QR payments through MercadoPago and Modo and you seem to be able to pay at Peanut with any of them.   

It's not quite the decentralised option I was hoping for: all of these are custodial and require registration/KYC. It seems to me that although everyone is excited about stablecoin adoption in Argentina, it is all done through middlemen.   

I mean, no shade to Peanut, the app works great for paying here and I'm going to keep using it. But what I'm not seeing is a decentralised option, wallet to wallet, where I'm not having to ask permission to use the service and then send my money into a wallet that I don't hold the keys for.  

Hmm, decentralised and trustless, by which I mean I want a solution other than meeting a stranger in the street and hoping they don't bring a wrench.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oivv23/daily_general_discussion_october_29_2025/nm2ow8o/)

Posting again about the use of the Peanut app in Buenos Aires as my previous isn't visible; probably my bad for including a link. 

Peanut dot me (confirm using Twitter) lets you install as a chromium app and a very simple sign up. You have to KYC with an identity document, took about two minutes.

Then they assign you a contract address. You send USDC on arb and it appears as USDC in your peanut wallet.  Your funds remain in USDC and transactions are shown in pesos and USD.

You can withdraw that USDC at any time.

A lot of places let you pay using a QR code, using Mercado Pago or MODO. Everyone that I've tried so far has worked with the Peanut app.
 
Usually, they generate a QR code for you. You scan it in the app and then confirm the transaction. The transaction is in pesos but you see the conversion rate and the full amount in USD. Then the transaction is debited from your wallet. You get a transaction link for more information but there's nothing on chain.

In other instances, the shop has a static QR code. You scan that and you have a zero value transaction where you have to put in the correct amount. Confirm that and the vendor in some way gets a confirmation that you paid the correct amount. 

It's all very easy and straight forward. 

Note that you have to have internet access for it to work. I tried to top up my subway card but the moment I went underground, I lost connectivity.

So far I've been very happy with the simplicity. Right now they require an invite but you can find one easily enough on Twitter or use mine in hopes that I get perks (invite is downthread or dm me).

</details>
