---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-10-24
episode: 129
guest: Austin Griffith
guest_topic: EF
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/bKj6rTmuUr
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oep26h/comment/nl34a3e/)

[u/No-Leave-4512](https://reddit.com/u/No-Leave-4512)

> Ethereum

[u/Altruistic-Theme-367](https://reddit.com/u/Altruistic-Theme-367)

> $3,967

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0357


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1odujwf/comment/nl182dz/)

*Post quantum ready,*

*Recovery already,*

*Market still sweaty.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Dark_Raiden_</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1odujwf/comment/nl0i8n3/)

Don't even ask the question. The answer is yes, it's priced in. Think Amazon will beat the next earnings? That's already been priced in. You work at the drive thru for Mickey D's and found out that the burgers are made of human meat? Priced in. You think insiders don't already know that? The market is an all powerful, all encompassing being that knows the very inner workings of your subconscious before you were even born. Your very existence was priced in decades ago when the market was valuing Standard Oil's expected future earnings based on population growth that would lead to your birth, what age you would get a car, how many times you would drive your car every week, how many times you take the bus/train, etc. Anything you can think of has already been priced in, even the things you aren't thinking of. You have no original thoughts. Your consciousness is just an illusion, a product of the omniscent market. Free will is a myth. The market sees all, knows all and will be there from the beginning of time until the end of the universe (the market has already priced in the heat death of the universe). So please, before you make a post on wsb asking whether AAPL has priced in earpods 11 sales or whatever, know that it has already been priced in and don't ask such a dumb fucking question again.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth makes it clear that the battle for institutions on public chains is not yet won</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1o7xfzm/daily_general_discussion_october_16_2025/nju15a1/)

That's a lot of words for: banks are getting their own private Blockchains. They will all start as L1s. Some might decide to become L2s and L3s to Ethereum so swift is keeping the door open.

We must avoid this constant genuflecting to TradFi, the incumbents are seeing the winds change and adapting and they will haggle as much as possible.

I think we already knew this. Swift is keeping all doors open. Unsurprisingly so, considering they have everything to lose if the Ethereum becomes a settlement layer that directly competes with them. They would never want to accelerate that process, and instead have incentives to fragment the ecosystem.

If the Ethereum aligned thesis wins out, Linea provides an entry-point to migrate most from L1s to L2s or L3s when access to liquidity becomes an obvious need.

Overall this is a minor retreat of Swift as incumbent by virtue of hedging the bet across options, and a win for Ethereum because it gets one foot through the door. 

It's way better than having Swift as a confrontational player and it probably signals that Swift is noticing that Ethereum has an edge in the current political and economical climate.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Moschus11 notices something annoying from Metamask and u/edmundedgar explains a universal rule</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oah2yu/daily_general_discussion_october_19_2025/nk9vwwp/)

[u/Moschus11](https://reddit.com/u/Moschus11):

TIL that on Metamask, you cannot remove your automatically created Solana wallet. All other networks/L1s can be removed. WTF.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oah2yu/daily_general_discussion_october_19_2025/nka6pfz/)

[u/edmundedgar](https://reddit.com/u/edmundedgar):

When a project adopts a non-free software license, all kinds of fuckery will follow. Always, it's universal, there are no exceptions.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/oxyeth suspects that Trezor customer data may have leaked</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1obb8mp/daily_general_discussion_october_20_2025/nkg07ms/)

I use different email addresses for every platform that I register on. This helps me detect and filter data leaks and spam.

Today I received a spam email on the email address that I used to register at Trezor. Therefor, I'm afraid that either Trezor sold my data, or had a leak. :(

edit: Looking at the trezor forum's, I see more people that are getting suspicious emails. Someone is posting about a fake firmware upgrade email.

If you have a trezor, please do not click on any links that you receive through email.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 highlights the AWS outage and Ethereum's unstoppability</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oc441r/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2025/nkkday2/)

<https://reddit.com/comments/1obk1bw/comment/nkh8vdz>

People are discovering that not even multi-cloud failover saved them from yesterday's AWS downtime.

Meanwhile the Ethereum network chugged along. The value of an unstoppable settlement layer is not priced in.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheHansGruber reflects on his time running testnet validators and encourages us to find a way to contribute and develop our skills</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oc441r/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2025/nknvuhu/)

After two years and a bunch of shenanigans, I executed ``rm -rf eth-docker`` and 86'd all of my assigned holesky genesis validators. 

All my Hoodi validators are still chooching though, so I've got that going for me. It's been real. It's been fun. But it ain't been real fun.

There is something quite odd about working through a massive crisis...that...isn't actually one? That's what testnets are for, obviously. You still have this underlying sense of "we NEED to fix this NOW", but the overall vibe is muted.

Anyway, I'll take this little post to remind everyone that there is more to do in the ecosystem than just complain or celebrate about the price action (although I do my fair share of chart watching and leverage degen gamboling). 

Get out there, ask how you can contribute. Throw some of your time, or your compute at something and pick up a new skill! My linux-fu is an order of magnitude greater now than it was 2 years ago, and that translates into heaps of other marketable skills not just in our little ecosystem, but the computer science/software industry writ large.

I am looking at a major career change here in the coming weeks and months and I can say that operating these validators, and working through major problems with a small team of other rocketpool nerds, remotely spread out across dozens of time zones gives me credibility in a field I never earned a degree in. And that's cool. It would also be cool if eth could stop fuckin' around and get up to $10k+ so maybe I wouldn't HAVE to change careers. 

Carry on.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth keeps us in the loop on Polygon's ever diminishing Ethereum alignment</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oc441r/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2025/nkl87j6/)

Today in CT people are not understanding that:

- If you are unhappy about pay for 6 years you can leave at any point, unless other things matter more to you.
- If your life priorities change you should not try to rewrite your past priorities nor try to gaslight peers and supporters into believing so.
- The Ethereum Foundation funds Ethereum related projects, not tech incubators for ZK proofs elsewhere. People claim Ethereum owes anything to Polygon because of ZK work, but I don't see anyone crying that all the other alt L1s made on EVM owe Ethereum anything. That's the thing with Open Source. Deal with it.
- Polygon is not even an L2 and no amount of revisionism by Sandeep will change this fact, especially considering that he's a billionaire thanks to the Ethereum ecosystem.

Polygon has been looking for an excuse to detach from Ethereum fully for a long while. And the Geth core dev crying a river had basically brought to life a 1 year old feud with the EF. 

All these people are not just sidelined on ETH the asset, but they are also sidelined on Ethereum the global finance ledger. They are missing the train because of their poor decision making, and they blame Ethereum for their own shortcomings. 

Specifically at Polygon. They are so egotistical that they would prefer to bring Ethereum down rather than admit their mistakes and just become the L2 Validium they should have been since the beginning.

This is what winning looks like btw, you can please some people, some of the time... But you'll always have hagglers on the sidelines.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains a major positive development in hardware wallet security</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oc441r/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2025/nkkp5q4/)

Trezor just introduced their new hardware wallet called Trezor Safe 7 (https://trezor.io/trezor-safe-7). It has bluetooth which makes it more mobile friendly than the older trezor wallets. It will be available in a month for around $250 or 250 Euro.  

What makes this announcement special though is that Trezor built their own secure element chip. They created a new company called tropico square which developed this chip (https://tropicsquare.com/). This secure element chip is fully auditable by security experts. Interested parties can order samples without having to sign an NDA and then publish their findings openly. To the best of my knowledge, all other secure element chips need you to sign an NDA and if you find security vulnerabilities you are not allowed to talk about them with anyone else. Trezor said they looked through so many secure element chips and found gaping holes in them which they are not allowed to talk about to anyone and the producer did not care. According to Trezor, many of these vulnerable secure element chips are widely used in the hardware wallet market. The most open secure element chips you could get until today were ones which allowed you to open source the code you ran on them, but most do not even allow that. That is why many hardware wallets are at least partially closed source and you have to trust the manufacturer to a large degree to not change the software under the hood without you knowing.

For me, the introduction of this auditable secure element chip is a very positive development. It will take some time until it will have an impact on the market. I personally am still a bit hesitant and will probably wait a year or so until I would load my cold wallet seed phrase on it, just to make sure that possible bugs have been ironed out.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 covers their recent guest post for Ethereum's official socials on client diversity</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oc441r/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2025/nkmxry0/)

I had the privilege of writing a guest post for Ethereum's social media accounts (thank you!), and it was posted just now so I thought I'd share it here with you as well.

My post ([Twitter link](https://x.com/ethereum/status/1980691326472757639)) starts by introducing the concept of client diversity, one of the primary reasons for Ethereum's impressive track record of zero downtime. The main topic of the post, however, are multi-node validator clients. I'm the maintainer of one such validator client called [Vero](https://vero.docs.serenita.io/).

Multi-node validator clients connect to different Ethereum clients (think Geth, Lighthouse, ...) simultaneously, combine their data, and only cast a validator vote if multiple Ethereum clients agree on the state of the chain. This way, validators can make sure they are not voting for an invalid chain.

Remember [how the Holešky testnet blew up a few months ago](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/blob/master/Network-Upgrade-Archive/Pectra/holesky-postmortem.md)? Back then, an invalid chain was voted on by more than 2/3 of the network, causing mass slashings, and resulted in a network that was very difficult to get back online at all. Now imagine that kind of thing happening on mainnet. It would be catastrophic for Ethereum.

A client-diverse, Vero-powered setup would _not_ have voted for that invalid Holešky chain. If we'd had higher adoption of those kinds of setups, we would have saved ourselves a lot of trouble.

It's too late for Holešky now, but it's not too late for mainnet. With Vero, I hope to make Ethereum even more resilient than it is today.

___

A few FAQs for the stakers around here.

> What about DVT? That also protects against client bugs, right?

Currently, DVT only protects against downtime bugs, not consensus bugs. Both SSV and Obol are working on addressing this, so that will help at some point in the future.

I personally believe multi-node validator clients, like Vero and Vouch, are the better choice for validators managed by a single entity, whereas DVT shines when multiple node operators are involved.

> I'm a home staker, should I use Vero?

You _can_. It's free, open-source. It's simple enough to set up, even for home stakers, and gives you additional protection. Having said that, I believe the true responsibility to run these more complex, multi-node setups lies with the professional staking node operators out there.

Some more FAQs are answered in the [docs](https://vero.docs.serenita.io/introduction/faqs/).
___

I'm happy to answer any further questions you might have!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth shares a good article on Ethereum capturing alt-L1s</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oc441r/daily_general_discussion_october_21_2025/nkol983/)

This is such a great article on how Ethereum is capturing alt-L1s masterfully while working towards offering options for sustainable and reliable L2 businesses *and* making this acreative to L1 network effects and deflation mechanisms in the long run.

Specially relevant: the stats about L2 profit margins, and how widely they vary when blob limits are low, then tend towards less volatile when there's a wider range for price discovery.

<https://www.decentralised.co/p/will-all-l1s-move-to-ethereum>

> Remember, we said that Ethereum is to rollups what cloud service providers are to software businesses. What happened after the cost of using cloud services dropped? The demand grew, and so did the revenues of cloud providers. AWS is the cleanest example here. It continued to cut prices for customers and still grew like a utility.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haochizzle introduces the Gitcoin Grants Round 24 Privacy Round!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oczbvw/daily_general_discussion_october_22_2025/nksqvb3/)

the gitcoin grants 24 privacy round is now live!!

as a staunch advocate for self-custodial and privacy tech with a mission to spread the good word on good work in crypto via my youtube channel, im extremely honoured 90 seconds to crypto has been accepted as an applicant for the GG24 privacy round 🥰 i do all of my video work end-to-end, on my own dime, to bring values-led, principles-driven content to the cesspool that is crypto youtube. 

this privacy round uses a combination of quadratic funding x MACI private onchain voting—but more importantly, even a $1 donation in WETH counts towards a bigger match from gitcoin. 

i know it's a big ask, but it would mean the world to me if you'd kindly consider donating here: [https://gitcoin.privote.live/rounds/0/0xcf7e8154450b0b6c477d9984ec3dec12bc4ea602c0913accc08e26a9a705bce1](https://gitcoin.privote.live/rounds/0/0xcf7e8154450b0b6c477d9984ec3dec12bc4ea602c0913accc08e26a9a705bce1)

some of the most dedicated privacy builders on ethereum that need funding are waiting over at [https://gitcoin.privote.live](https://gitcoin.privote.live) . voting is only available until oct 29th.

thank you anons and godspeed 🫡

</details>
