---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-08-08
episode: 120
guest: Loring Harkness
guest_topic: "[Shutter Network](https://shutter.network)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/Ctp1cL0lIW
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jrWKL9rJpCc
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mkmcbn/comment/n7jrw8c/)

[u/HITMAN616](https://reddit.com/u/HITMAN616)

> Ethereum

[u/PooeyGusset](https://reddit.com/u/PooeyGusset)

> $3,915

[u/harpocryptes](https://reddit.com/u/harpocryptes)

> 0.0335

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mgatfj/comment/n6rr6je/)

*Cousins in disgust,*

*Distrust Ether as robust,*

*The month of August.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>The Choda</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mkmcbn/comment/n7jrv01/)

༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ ETH TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth shares their answers to 3 Ethereum questions</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mennu9/daily_general_discussion_august_01_2025/n6c7x7v/)

We joined 50+ teams to answer the following:  
1. Describe Ethereum in 3 words  
2. What could make Ethereum fail?  
3. What does Ethereum still need to get right to succeed in the next decade?  
  
Our Answers (they had to be short):  
1. Bringing everything onchain  
2. Difficult one - If we were to stop innovating and ossify too soon, we wouldn't fail but we would fall short of our full potential. Thankfully, there is loads left on the roadmap and upgrades are becoming more regular and ambitious...  
3. We need to keep scaling whilst remaining decentralised and permissionless. There is so much room for this pie to grow but we dont just want to onboard existing companies we need to continue to support and encourage new innovation too.  
  
Would love to hear the community here answer these questions!

You can see our video reply and the other teams replies here: [https://eth10.ssv.network/](https://eth10.ssv.network/) (scroll down)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/alexiskef shares the latest development from CowSwap</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mdsq6h/daily_general_discussion_july_31_2025/n66v7p9/)

CowSwap IS kicking ass once more! They are now enabling [swapping across chains!!!!](https://x.com/CoWSwap/status/1950949183747457411)

"Cross-chain DeFi is the dream, but the reality?

A frustrating dance of separate bridges, swaps, high fees, and security risks. Billions lost to vulnerabilities. 😩

It's time for a change.

Starting today, CoW Swap users can swap across chains."

I have tried a dev version of this, around one month ago.. It works flawlessly...

Edit: fun fact: they have created an NFT (together with Bungee, who is their bridging partner on this), for the release! [Mint it here, at Opensea!](https://opensea.io/collection/cow-swap-goes-multichain-with-bungee/overview)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ElEterElote asks about Joe Lubin's comments about thinking we're at the end of a global macro supercycle and u/haurog explains his theory</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mgatfj/daily_general_discussion_august_03_2025/n6pl9zw/)

[u/ElEterElote](https://reddit.com/u/ElEterElote):

In a few interviews regarding SharpLink (SBET), Joe Lubin has discussed how he believes we are coming to the end of a super cycle, referring to fiat reserve currencies and national debt. He's suggested that Ray Dalio and Strauss talk about this, and maybe others, and while I've been able to find Ray Dalio's books and other media I don't know who Strauss is or where to begin with him. Can anyone point me in the right direction?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mgatfj/daily_general_discussion_august_03_2025/n6q908p/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

If you google "fourth turning" you will find the Strauss-Howe generational theory.

In my understanding the generational theory sees cyclical patterns in the American and more generally western history. Each of these cycles is several decades long (60-120 years or so) and each cycle can be subdivided into 4 distinct generations of about 15-30 years in length.

- The first generation (called High) is the one which builds up institutions, there is a strong community spirit and is generally an optimistic period.
- The second generation (called Awakening) is focused on individualism pushes for freedom of expression.
- The third generation (called Unraveling) is peak individualism and a mistrust of institutions starts to emerge. Social cohesion goes down. 
- The fourth turning (called Crisis) is the period where society has to face many challenges which make it necessary that institutions are getting reformed/rebuilt.

Afterwards a new first generation starts a new cycle.

According to the followers of this theory, we currently are in the fourth turning, which is the Crisis. Depending who you follow, we have been there for 25 years already or only since covid. So if this is true we might stay in this fourth turning for a few more years (or decades). 

The theory and books around it where first published in the 90ies and it got quite a few followers. But this way of analysis of western history is also very much criticized as there is not really a very objective way to clearly distinguish these generations over the last 500 years or so. Nevertheless, many people have been influenced by this cyclical view of the world. I would guess Ray Dalio has also been influenced by this view of the world when he wrote the book 'The Changing World Order' which looks at the most influential countries over the last few hundred years, how they have risen to power and how they vanished again. According to Ray Dalio the world order sees a change of the leading power with the US losing influence and China gaining it. This, he says, will be similar to what happened a hundred years ago when the UK started losing its grip on the world or the Netherlands 250 years ago.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll breaks down a Bitcoin maxi's unconvincing critique of Ethereum</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mi09a5/daily_general_discussion_august_05_2025/n74y385/)

Her whole argument seemed to be Ethereum was too risky, yet the only "risks" she could throw at Ethereum were:

- "Proof of Stake complexities and centralisation risks" — Centralisation which pales in comparison to Bitcoin's now highly consolidated mining sector and regarding risk, well I'd say actively improving the protocol is less risky than an ossified protocol which urgently needs security updates (security budget and quantum proofing being the main risks for Bitcoin here).
- "Greater risk around bridges and L2s" — Just stay on the L1 if you're scared of these risks.
- "Other platforms also doing smart contracts like Bitcoin" — Yes, but which platform is far and away the leader in R&D? I'll give you a hint, it's not Bitcoin, it's not Solana and it rhymes with "Schmethereum".
- "The SEC could still label it a security" — Is this satire? She can't be serious...

---

Context: <https://x.com/Jrag0x/status/1952809046672851243>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/edmundedgar outlines some genuine risks of the pro-crypto legislation</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mi09a5/daily_general_discussion_august_05_2025/n74h6lm/)

The argument on the GENIUS act is that if you massively grow stablecoins (which I think we will?) you end up with a lot of money lent to banks that might suddenly exit for some crypto greed-and-fear / leverage type of reason. A stablecoin issuer suddenly running on their bank is part of what brought down Silicon Valley Bank so it's not completely irrational. I personally think that if you can't regulate the banking system so that it can handle being able to bank interest-free deposits then your banking system is probably beyond saving, but it's not an idiotic thing to worry about.

The broader argument is that crypto is going to be used to work around all kinds of financial regulations that were created after previous financial crises. Who is lending how much, how do we find out what their exposure is, how do we make sure the whole economy doesn't undergo a massive contraction simultaneously, stuff like that. It's definitely true that previously we've had periods of financial deregulation followed by a financial crisis that taxpayers have had to bail out. Reagan deregulated the banks then got the Savings and Loans crisis, George W Bush did a load of financial deregulation then got the Lehman Shock. 

I think the premises here are correct in that creative people with access to crypto will run circles around any kind of regulation standing between the user and what the user wants to do. I'm not clear on whether crypto will get enough purchase on the real economy that for example uncollateralized loans are being made by non-bank actors in a way that avoids bank regulation; If it's just a token casino then it shouldn't matter too much to the wider economy. But I think it *might* and this is one of the reasons I think ETH is a good investment... So I don't think the concern is nuts.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/asdafari14 delivers the Tornado Cash verdict</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mivrb0/daily_general_discussion_august_06_2025/n79kint/)

> COUNT 1, MONEY LAUNDERING: NOT UNANIMOUS

> COUNT 2, 1960: GUILTY

> COUNT 3, SANCTIONS EVASION: NOT GUILTY

<https://x.com/theragetech/status/1953132291363926026>

Roman Storm has been found guilty of count 2, conspiracy to operate an unlicensed money transmission business. Max penalty is supposedly five years but the guideline is much lower. He won't go to prison for like 40 years, that he was risking before. 

> Conspiracy to operate an unlicensed money transmission business

I would prefer if he wasn't guilty of anything but this count seems almost true no? According to GPT, it is a crime to even use informal systems (people you trust, couriers) to move money across borders without licenses. TC isn't actually moving the money, Ethereum is, but it kind of enables that too well.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Gumpa-Bucky shares an interesting speech from Hester Peirce from the SEC</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mivrb0/daily_general_discussion_august_06_2025/n7bhk2x/)

<https://www.sec.gov/newsroom/speeches-statements/peirce-remarks-blockchain-conference-080425>

Long but interesting speech given by SEC's friendly commissioner Hester Peirce about how new disintermediation technology, such as blockchain, demands a fresh look at the societal balance between security and privacy.  She leads with the parallel history of automation of phone calling away from previously necessary phone operators who had access to your calls to automated self-dialing.  She gets into the third party doctrine and Bank Secrecy Act, which she calls for changing to restore privacy in light of new digital technology.

</details>
