---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-08-04
episode: 119
guest: Paul Berg
guest_topic: "[Sablier](https://sablier.com/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/W6lauCUTPV
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vArvlN6S7-0
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mennu9/comment/n6aqfvp/)

[u/howareyou_2_day](https://reddit.com/u/howareyou_2_day)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $3,683.94

[u/YankeeDoodlePeguin](https://reddit.com/u/YankeeDoodlePeguin)

> 0.032

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mdsq6h/comment/n68b6g3/)

*Weeks of resistance,*

*ATH in the distance,*

*Ether persistence.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/trillionSdollarstech thinks that Ethereum's low inflation narrative needs to be pushed more</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1maduts/daily_general_discussion_july_27_2025/n5ebad1/)

I'm not sure this narrative is pushed enough to companies looking for diversification for their treasury:

The inflation of the ETH supply is 0.12% since the Merge (0.8% at most in low activity periods). Moreover, if you stake, you get a 2.8% yield (more if you subscribe to MEV).

**So, overall, in the worst case (low activity period) you profit from the equivalent of a stock buyback of 2% per year (deflation), while holding BTC costs you a dilution of 0.8% per year and will never be below 0%.**

For treasuries, there is no doubt that ETH is a superior asset to store value. –2% inflation versus +0.8%. In a rational world, the ratio should be 0.03 for BTCETH not the other way around. This must be made clear in the communications, because this important advantage can't be ignored by the many companies that are not yet convinced they need / will need ETH for its use cases.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheHansGruber has a reservation about The Ether Machine and u/eth2353 adds to the censorship resistance and decentralization conversation</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mb7f6p/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2025/n5m29wr/)

[u/TheHansGruber](https://reddit.com/u/TheHansGruber):

Right at the hour mark on the bankless episode with the ether machine guys this morning, they say they want to be the validator set that produces/sells blocks that don't contain any TX to unknown entities or validators. Earlier in the ep they said they want to acquire up to 10% of the network. It may have been 10% of eth supply, but they'll be staking most of it. So they want to acquire a ton of eth (but specifically not enough to "harm the network")... Yet also want to  gatekeep entire blocks worth of TX's specifically to sell to institutions? This *is* censorship, no? And does that not harm the credible neutrality of the network and thus some of the value prop of eth thay they are otherwise so beautifully promoting? I loved the "I'd rather have an iPhone than a landline" quip.

Does this deserve any pushback, should we accept that this is the nature of the institutions arriving with trillions of quatloos, or is there some third option?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mb7f6p/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2025/n5mi4it/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

I plan to listen to the episode later today, quite curious about their plans!

"Block selling" is how 90+% of the blocks are already being produced _today_. The Ether Machine guys may plan to take it a step further with something like preconfs to get a bit more yield (and they're far from the only ones who will do that). In terms of censorship, as long as we have something like FOCIL we can always rely on transactions getting included, though to be fair FOCIL is not designed for a world where 90% of transactions is being censored so we'll have to see how it turns out. I don't think they'd have a reason to censor your regular transactions as long as your pay a fair market price for it being included.

I'm more worried about the centralization of the validator set (have been for quite some time, see my comment history). These guys will likely run a ton of validators. We should push for them _not to outsource_ this work to an existing huge staking service provider like Coinbase/Kiln/Figment/... It would be much better if they:

a) ran the validators themselves in a responsible way (multi-client setup - Vero/Vouch/DVT)

b) used something like Rocket Pool

c) used the smallest staking service provider possible (This one's harder than it looks – you want the provider to be small but at the same time, reputable)

We want to distribute the stake as evenly as we can. We can, as a community, let them know

Edit: I listened to it. Quite interesting, I didn't realize some of the people from The Ether Machine have been in the game that long (pre-Ethereum genesis). They seem to realize it wouldn't be a good idea for them to acquire _too much_ ETH as that would hurt Ethereum in the long term. With their personal experience in the whole ETH ecosystem (not just staking) I think this will be a very interesting company to follow. They'll likely be among the first ones to deploy serious institutional capital into DeFi.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/tomsmac asks where ETH gets its value from and gets some great responses including</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mb7f6p/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2025/n5l013q/)

I’m having difficulty understanding where ETH gets its value. Does it generate fees with each transaction? I understand that ETH is used in over 50% of stablecoins but what makes it valuable? Is it just it’s scarcity?

Thanks.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Yeopaa, u/epic_trader, and u/Dreth explain how ETH supply is calculated, the issuance curve, and relationship between scaling vs fee revenue</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mb7f6p/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2025/n5l2v4c/)

[u/Yeopaa](https://reddit.com/u/Yeopaa):

Eth doesn't have a fixed supply cap like bitcoin. It’s a key distinction and a common point of confusion. Yes. Eths supply *can* increase  but here’s the nuance:

Before (Proof of Work) - eth had no supply cap and inflation was relatively high. New eth was issued to miners as block rewards.

Now (Proof of Stake + EIP-1559) - eth still has no hard cap, but new eth is only issued to validators (stakers). A portion of every transaction fee is burned (via EIP-1559)

It means eths supply is dynamic. When the network is busy, a lot of eth is burned - supply can shrink. When it’s quiet, issuance > burn - supply grows slowly.

We have a site we like around here to monitor the supply cap and burn rate etc.

<https://ultrasound.money/>

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mb7f6p/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2025/n5l37yc/)

[u/epic_trader](https://reddit.com/u/epic_trader):

The devs don't have a button they can click to create more ETH. 

Ethereum has a predefined issuance curve which pays out ETH to validators for securing the network. Right now total supply grows around .9% per year. The theoretical max yearly supply growth is 1.5% per year, but that would require every single ETH to be staking, so realistically it'll probably never get much above 1%.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mb7f6p/daily_general_discussion_july_28_2025/n5la2zw/)

[u/Dreth](https://reddit.com/u/Dreth):

One thing you'll see some people say in other communities and around the media to bash ETH is that the blockchain generates little revenue. However, when you consider the context in which this 'lack of revenue' occurs, it becomes largely irrelevant.

At some point Ethereum was the highest revenue chain of all, by FAR, however, this was a result of there being a lot of demand for blockspace, but just not enough supply. Hence why there was constant criticism of its high fees. Now, given the upgrades introduced to the blockchain in the past 2 years (2024 and 2025), plus the existence of L2s, Ethereum has become a lot more scalable and therefore with the growing demand for blockspace, it can now accomodate a lot more transactions.

This has resulted in a sharp drop in 'chain revenue', meaning there's a lot less fees being collected. However, we must note that had these upgrades not come, even if revenue was 'higher', the chain would be prohibitively expensive to use.

So while all the comments replying to you are extremely well explained, I also think this detail is very important to point out, given that social media and crypto media sites (which all offer contradicting views) will try to bash whatever 'negative quality' ethereum has. First it's that transactions are too expensive (but no one mentioned how high chain revenue was a 'good thing'), now chain revenue is too low (but no one mentions how transaction fees are now very low and getting cheaper).

So while some of the value that drives price appreciation in ETH are related to the use of the blockchain and the fact that ETH is required to transact on Ethereum and its L2s, this is not as relevant or important as institutional and retail demand to accumulate the asset. All likely in anticipation to a wave of new developments coming along with more clear, open and well outlined regulation in the US, where most crypto companies and the capital that funds them still reside in (as with most industries).

With this new regulatory clarity, Ethereum is poised to become the most resilient, solid, secure, neutral, decentralised and uncensorable blockchain in the market. It is now in a unique position to capture enormous amounts of value from the financial sector, which now has green light to start building and deploying innovative products aimed at both institutions, retail investors and likely the average joe all over the world.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 keeps us in the loop on the Tornado Cash case and Roman Storm's trial</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mc2ngv/daily_general_discussion_july_29_2025/n5rcnwz/)

Reporting back on Roman Storm's trial (Tornado Cash developer) after the second week. We are in the third week of the trial which is now expected to wrap up this week. The prosecution has finished making its case and it is now the defense's turn. We'll then have closing statements from both sides, followed by a verdict. (There's still ongoing debate on the exact instructions the jury should receive)

If you want to read detailed summaries of what happened every day, read them [here on The Rage](https://www.therage.co/tag/tornado-cash/), it's quite interesting to read through. I'll share the tidbits that were most interesting to me.

___

**Prosecution case**

> The prosecution attempted to paint a picture of Roman Storm as having deliberately built Tornado Cash to serve criminals. [...] To obtain a conviction, the Government has to prove mens rea: that Storm was of a guilty mind while developing Tornado Cash.

Last Wednesday, we had an interesting witness presented by the prosecution - Shakeed Ahmed. This is a convicted criminal who is serving a 36 month sentence and is hoping for a reduction of said sentence in exchange for his testimony (!). (_How is this not incentivizing false testimony?_)

> Ahmed testified that he used Tornado Cash to anonymize funds for a fee that he used to execute a price-manipulation attack against Crema – but that he did not use the service at all in laundering the roughly $15 million in proceeds from those crimes, or use Tornado Cash in any way in the Nirvana exploit.

So a bit of good, a bit of bad. You might be asking yourself – why even bring this witness if they barely used Tornado Cash? It was to help "establish venue":

> [Ahmed] used Tornado Cash from his Manhattan apartment, providing another bit of standing for holding the trial in the SDNY.

On the same day, blockchain analyst Philip Werlau of Anchain AI also testified. His main role for the prosecution was to describe various ways how Tornado Cash could have stopped hackers from using it for crime. He admitted the original smart contracts couldn't have been altered, but also proposed this kind of solution:

> Tornado Cash would use an account-based login system for the front-end, which would collect identifying information in an off-chain database in exchange for whitelisting a wallet for participation in mixing. Then, both deposit and withdrawal addresses for the mixing itself “would be maintained privately off the blockchain.”

Right, as if anyone would use that kind of system for privacy...

> The defense went on to grill Werlau over industry practices, asking whether he had used services like Signal or Metamask, and whether either required any personally identifiable information to sign up, which Werlau stated to not recall.

One last _insane_ thing that happened is [this exchange](https://xcancel.com/innercitypress/status/1948745680110891420) between AUSA Rehn and the judge (which was sealed afterwards):

> AUSA Rehn: We've spoken with Tom Schmidt's lawyer John Bostick
> Judge: Are you looking at possibly prosecuting everyone at DragonFly?
> AUSA Rehn: Not everyone, but Schmidt and [?...?]

Tom Schmidt is an executive at Dragonfly, one of the investors in Tornado Cash. The DOJ is never allowed to speculate on prosecuting a third party in open court in front of the media - that directly violates DOJ policy which states:

> in the absence of some significant justification, it is not appropriate to identify (either by name or unnecessarily specific description), or cause a defendant to identify, a party unless that party has been publicly charged with the misconduct at issue.

Guess what – AUSA Rehn backtracked hard on that exchange yesterday:

> Rehn: Following that conference, there has been inaccurate and misleading public reporting on the government's position concerning Dragonfly and certain of its executives. The government wants the record to be clear that it has not identified Dragonfly or any of its directors, officers, employees, or controlling investors as targets of its investigation.

___

**Defense case**

We have a bit of what appears to be witness intimidation by the government:

> On Friday, the defense stated that one of the Chainalysis witnesses now plans on pleading the Fifth – meaning that the witness may refuse to testify to avoid self-incrimination. According to the defense, this decision was made after a phone call between Chainalysis and the Government. The defense has asked the court to inquire on the details of what was said, stating that it was "deeply concerned," as the witnesses potential decision came "out of the blue." Chainalysis counsel, Mr. DeFillippis, did not disclose to the defense what was discussed on the call after multiple inquiries, the defense alleges.

Preston van Loon (ETH core dev working at Offchain Labs (Prysm)) took the stand as a witness, providing some evidence that Tornado Cash did indeed have people using it for legitimate reasons:

> Van Loon said he used the privacy protocol to limit the amount of publicly available financial information about him, because malicious actors could target him based on the on-chain assets he has access to. 

The story of the IRS Agent that used some kind of LIFO method to trace funds may continue:

> The defense may additionally call an already disclosed witness to rebut tracing done by IRS Special Agent George of the Government's first witness' funds Hanfeng "Katie" Lin, which, quite frankly, appears to have been an absolute dumpsterfire.

___

The good:

- The defense has imo poked some holes in the prosecution's case, and at least to me, some of their expert witness' competence on a technical level. The Rage reports: "[Both defense attorneys] have consistently delivered incisive cross-examinations so far."
- The defense is now free to make its case, I'm hopeful they can present some good evidence and poke further holes in the government's case.


The bad:

- The fact the team actually profited from Tornado Cash (through its governance token) makes things look worse.
- Multiple people have reported the jury looks bored. These are normal people, with no good graps of the tech behind Tornado Cash who have been listening to highly technical mumbo-jumbo for two weeks – no wonder they're bored,.

___

If you are in a position to support reporting on this case, I would again ask you to support [The Rage](https://www.therage.co/) who have honestly been the best source of information on this trial. They are an independent publication, some of the quotes above are from their articles and they post on Twitter about the case multiple times every day. I am not affiliated with them in any way.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mcxrvj/daily_general_discussion_july_30_2025/n5xi1pl/)

Quick update on Roman Storm's trial.

The defense expects to wrap up making their case later today. Roman decided not to testify himself.

Both sides will present their closing arguments, after which the jury will render a verdict. All of this could happen today already.

In [yesterday's post](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/Po89aPhWCp) I mentioned the violation of DOJ policy by the prosecutor, the transcript of which has been sealed by the judge. Inner City Press reporter Matthew Lee has now [requested the transcript to be unsealed](https://www.documentcloud.org/documents/26035110-stormunsealasfiledicp/) and for the judge to provide a basis for sealing (sealing must be justified). This is probably not going to affect Roman's case in any way though.

One more interesting thing that came up on crypto Twitter yesterday is the fact that _every single Ethereum validator_ has a sort of link to Tornado Cash. How come? The beacon deposit contract (used to deposit funds to Ethereum validators) was deployed by an address funded from Tornado Cash!

Fingers crossed, hoping for the best.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz reflects on his Ethereum genesis experience 10 years ago</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mcxrvj/daily_general_discussion_july_30_2025/n60crpp/)

Ten years ago today I was anxiously waiting for the genesis hash to arrive, the moment it arrived I scrambled to load it into my miners in hopes of being one of the first mainnet block miners. I don't remember much, but I did a screen recording that I stashed somewhere. I got the hash in and generated the first DAG and began feverishly mining with my three cards. I wasn't early, but about four hours I hit my first mainnet block. It was thrilling. So much time and patience, so much hacking with AlethZero and lost private keys.. but finally .. it arrived. Such an awesome and exciting experience. I'll never forget the thrill of that day.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth read the White House workgroup report on digital assets so you don't have to</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mcxrvj/daily_general_discussion_july_30_2025/n62g0ks/)

Finished reading the Digital Assets Report by Whitehouse Workgroup. Each section has key recommendations that I'd say serve as a window to the future we can expect... I'm not sure this is the report that Trump requested within 180 days on that Executive Order he signed but the timing seems right.

Here's a rough point by point of the recommendations

- Legal right to self-custody assets & do peer-to-peer transactions.
- Software devs without full control won't be considered money transmitters.
- CFTC gets power over spot markets for non-security digital assets.
- Clearer rules for DeFi and crypto exchanges.
- Banks get clearer rules for engaging with digital assets.
- Push dollar-backed stablecoins globally.
- Ban the U.S. from creating a CBDC.
- Better info sharing to fight illicit finance, somehow avoiding overreach?
- IRS to update guidance on staking, wrapping, wash sales, etc.
- Push to treat digital assets as a new asset class.

I'd like to see this spawn from the Clarity Act and others, I'd expect it to develop in the next 2-3 years... Things go slow in DC, so I would not get hopes too high, beyond a clear understanding that there're now tailwinds, and at least an intention to thoughtfully regulate.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth celebrates 10 years of Ethereum with some cool stats</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1mcxrvj/daily_general_discussion_july_30_2025/n5z99zb/)

Happy Birthday Ethereum - 10 years of data:  
- Over 2.9 Billion Transactions  
- Over 200 Million Addresses  
- Over $20 Billion in Revenue (Let's break this one down)

Top Applications by gas fees:  
- $3B Uniswap  
- $1.3B Opensea  
- $1B Tether  
- $350M USDC  
- $340M Metamask (swap/bridge)

Top Layer 2s by rent paid to the L1  
- $95M Arbitrum One  
- $67M OP Mainnet  
- $55M ZKsync Era  
- $30M Linea  
- $27M Scroll

</details>
