---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-05-23
episode: 112
guest: Aly Madhavji
guest_topic: [Blockchain Founders Fund](https://blockchainff.com/)
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/gXyI0L1tpv
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ksjj96/comment/mtlzoj1/)

[u/johnnydappeth](https://reddit.com/u/johnnydappeth)

> Ethereum

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> $2,614

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0235

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kqxpp4/comment/mtdihjw/)

*Attacker observe,*

*While cryptography preserve,*

*Ahead of the curve.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/alexiskef explains the new Cowswap update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kntpet/daily_general_discussion_may_16_2025/msmrkko/)

Since I am a (very) long time user of Cowswap 🐮, I am periodically sharing some of the upgrades/ developments to their amazing product.

Some hours ago, they [announced on X](https://x.com/CoWSwap/status/1923309608443290110) that they are moving from single Batch Auctions to a new core mechanism: the Fair Combinatorial Auction.

What is FCA? 

"FCA is a more advanced auction format that allows solvers to submit multiple solutions, including:

* Individual order bids
* Bundled batch bids

This lets CoW Protocol evaluate more paths to execution - not just one winner"

Why, you might be wondering, change the already established single Batch Auction to something new?

Well, under SBA the following limits existed: 

"* Only one winner per auction = wasted potential
* Extra value from batching often benefited a few trades
* EBBO checks were needed to enforce fairness (and created friction)"

FCA solves these issues. The actual users (traders, swappers, etc), get to enjoy the following:

✅ Better price fairness
✅ More orders filled per auction
✅ Lower slippage
✅ Fewer discarded solutions
✅ Stronger throughput
✅ Same uniform prices for same-direction trades

There is also better MEV protection, as:

"FCA helps reduce subtle solver manipulation like self-trading to game batch rewards.

By allowing multiple bids, smart solvers naturally compete across batch sizes - removing the incentive to stuff trades for appearance."

The full proposal (CIP67) is [here in detail.](https://snapshot.box/#/s:cow.eth/proposal/0xf9ecb08c4738f04c4525373d6b78085d16635f86adacd1b8ea77b2c176c99d32).. and there is an [articles published by coindesk](https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2025/05/15/dex-aggregator-cow-swap-targets-33-trading-boost-with-collaboration-feature-more-rewards) explaining the whole change..

Finishing my comment, I would just like to add that since the first time I used Cowswap I have used it for almost 99% of all the swapping I do.. ❤️🐮❤️

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HauntedJockStrap88 brings up product market fit for NFTs/crypto in gaming and u/nudelsalat3000 explains how the state of the gaming industry and ownership is fundamentally broken</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kntpet/daily_general_discussion_may_16_2025/msmc8cu/)

[u/](https://reddit.com/u/HauntedJockStrap88):

I felt a couple years ago that NFTs would be much more widely adopted now than they became. Obviously tokenization/DeFi are the big ticket items of the moment but it’s pretty crazy that crypto hasn’t penetrated things like event ticketing and gaming like I thought. 

Gamers have largely rejected the idea of crypto integration. They see us unfortunately how the majority of society sees us, as grifters. They didn’t see crypto integration as a cool new feature but instead as the next loot box mechanic- there to further financialize their hobby. It quickly became not financially possible for a studio to integrate crypto even if they wanted to as advertising your game contained NFTs or crypto integration was like a poison pill. 

Myself, and other proponents would say that of course while crypto integration *could* and in many cases probably *would* be extractive to the consumer there are really cool possibilities that such mechanics *could* be instead extremely consumer friendly. 

So what do we think? Is there just no PMF there and I was totally wrong? Are we still early when it comes to NFT adoption? Do we need the DeFi/tokenization thing to take off before the NFTs take off?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kntpet/daily_general_discussion_may_16_2025/msmqjcc/)

[u/nudelsalat3000](https://reddit.com/u/nudelsalat3000):

Gamers would first of all jump at it, if we would really own things.

The same bullshit that Microsoft tried to pull off: you don't own windows, just a licence to use it and hence you cannot resell it. Luckily the European Union kicked their balls and mandated that if you own the licence have the right to sell it a price of your choice. Born was the secondary market with lower prices.

We would need exactly the same for games. But game shops like Valve Steam or other and are corrupt now tell you that you ownly own the access to the library of games. Hence you cannot sell the licence of the games. Interestingly you would however be entitled to sell OR INHERIT your game account with all licenses. But even that they try to dismiss under there own logic.

The biggest scam level is now visible with the Nintendo switch 2. You cannot modify it or it gets hardware bricked, because you only own the licence to use it.

We would need to break up the markets and make goods ownable. Then they are tradeable.

The market would be even bigger if we would really own the data we produced by GDPR. Thousand of startup would be created if all vendors would need to provide API acces to your own data. Only then you create the network effect and the network of platforms.

But like now, you don't own anything, you don't have your data, you are locked in one ecosystem and you can't leverage the utility by such connections and profit by such network money conceps as ETH.

But I don't see any party competent enough to drive such regulatory liberal openings of technology. Microsoft was just attacked because agencies couldn't resell their own old licence which were so expensive.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/vvpan shares a bullish snippet from the AMA with Tomasz from the EF</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kom062/daily_general_discussion_may_17_2025/mssl4w1/)

An AMA with EF co-director Tomasz Stanczak is happening on Farcaster (in /ama). Nothing too interesting I would say but to those in need of hopium, there's this exchange. 


> Q: EF gets a lot of heat on X/Twitter, what's the biggest misconception people have? What do they get wrong?


> A: People are unaware of how overwhelming is the advantage of the Ethereum mainnet in the space of RWA, tokenization, DeFi liquidity, stablecoins issuance. www.rwa.xyz
Many people also do not realize how strong and healthy the relationship between the Ethereum L1 and L2s is.


https://warpcast.com/jayhinz/0xc77b4e8a

Edit: Do go look at the graph on app.rwa.xyz

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains the current status of blobs and DA</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kpd36v/daily_general_discussion_may_18_2025/mszwlo1/)

What happened in the last few days/weeks is that Ethereum Blobs overtook alternative DA providers like Celestia in actual data posted. The increased blob space increased the lead a bit more. This shows that there is not a huge demand for alternative DA at the moment. In the long run I expect this to change again, but it is great to see that there is a clear demand for Ethereum native DA and that Ethereum can provide enough for the rollup space to grow.

Currently there are more blobs available than is demanded from the market. Not surprising when availability just doubled less than 2 weeks ago. This means blob prices are at the bottom (1 Wei) and essentially free. This is the same situation we had after the introduciton of blobs with the Dencun upgrade. It took a bit more than 6 months to consistently fill the available blobs and a fee market to develop. At the moment 3.5-4 blobs are filled out of the 6 available. I would expect it to also take a few months again for demand to match the available blobs and a fee market to develop. If you check etherscan you can see that blob carrying transactions still pay the normal gas fees though which costs them between 0.3-5$ depending on how much calldata they use with the transaction. So there is still some fees paid back to Ethereum.

In the long run we will most probably see a higher income from selling blobs alone. The demand is here which is a great indicator of things to come. There is also the discussion to include a fixed or dynamic minimum fee for blobs in the next upgrade (Fusaka) which would result in rollups having to pay a small amount even when there are many more blobs available than is demanded from the market. This is especially important as Fusaka comes with a massive increase of blob space. At the moment an increase by a factor of 8 is discussed, but it might be a bit smaller right after the upgrade and increased slowly afterwards. 

If you want to have sources check out the dune dashboards which look at blobs. The hildobby one is always a great start. You already used growthepie.xyz which generally is very reliable. If you want to check the actual block carrying transactions and what they pay, go to Etherscan and click Blockchain->View Blobs and check the gas fees paid for some of the transactions.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz starts a discussion about everyone's staking journey</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kpd36v/daily_general_discussion_may_18_2025/msxzpmd/)

Tell me about your staking journey. 

Are you staking now? How's it going for you? 

How long have you been staking? Has it been a net positive or a net negative for you? (not just financially, but globally)

What form(s) of staking have you gone with?

What's your ten year outlook on staking?

(These are directionally-leading questions, I'd much rather see your freeform answer than a direct answer to these specific questions)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 asks a genuine question about how critical different EF funded teams are and u/haurog digs deeper on the topic</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kq4i2u/daily_general_discussion_may_19_2025/mt33f2p/)

[u/benido2030](https://reddit.com/u/benido2030):

I have been thinking a bit about [this tweet](https://x.com/0xstark/status/1922642395654394082) (or [this cast](https://warpcast.com/abcoathup/0xf8597ef8) if you prefer Farcaster). It's the Ethereum Foundation org chart. I know this has been discussed a lot in the past couple of months, mostly with a negative connotation, but I still wanna add some thoughts. 

As you can see there are a lot of teams on the payroll. Some teams are in my opinion essential (e.g. the Geth team, Protocol Support, etc.) for Ethereum, especially when it comes to really implementing specs and basically running the protocol (obviously in the end the validators run the protocol, but client teams are as close as it gets). The research heavy teams have been questioned a lot though and I think it's fair to do that. It's not "our" money, but still the community and ecosystem should voice concerns if money is spent unwisely. Given that ETH had just a very few upgrades and a lot of the research done couldn't be implemented (just because the scope of every fork needs to be limited)... should all these teams exist? We could argue that the impact of a lot of teams was close to 0. 

When I was a Product Manager years ago, I wouldn't design new features if the roadmap was full. Deep in my heart I want things to be efficient. So why not cut the cost? 

With Ethereum pivoting and likely increasing the amount of forks per year and hence the amount of features that make it into the protocol, the argument that all this research doesn't matter already weakens. At the same time there's one thing that is even more important. One killer feature can change everything. If R&D is successful and one of these teams creates something that only Ethereum has/ can do, then the impact of that is already so huge, that all the money invested in R&D that doesn't hit the chain isn't really relevant anymore. I believe now is the time to invest in research since we can expect the results of that process to be included in a fork soon. 

So we shouldn't spend money just to spend money and distribute ETH from the foundation to others. But since the Foundation tries to align the implementation output with the research output and the bottleneck the investments make more sense than ever. Let's hope we see some younger EIPs make it into the protocol rather sooner than later!

---

[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kq4i2u/daily_general_discussion_may_19_2025/mt3jux0/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

I guess we are mostly speaking about the left side of the organizational chart. The top one are the actual research teams (\~43 people) whereas the bottom part (\~66 people) is more the Engineering part of the R&D. It is very difficult to say which parts are important and which are not as an outsider, but Nixo did a great post about a subset of these groups and what they have been up to: https://mi rror.xyz/nixo.eth/TS-GwCEAKD_UTOE2_SCA_eFWyHstVAtGGn2Hu8mMezQ

I think many of us have been directly influenced by what the applied research group and the consensus R&D does. Without Toni Wahrstätters data driven analysis we would still be in the dark about how much we can scale the L1 and how healthy the chain is overall. The cryptography team has been essential in developing the stateless Ethereum roadmap as well as the PeerDAS implementation research. Some things did not work out that well like the Hardware VDF implementation. But in the end this also showed that verifiable delay functions (VDFs) are not ready yet to be used. The robust incentives group (RIG) is essential to analyse the censorship resistance and a possible mitigation with FOCIL (fork-choice enforced inclusion list). They are also rethinking issuance which is a different beast to tackle. I do not know too much about the other research teams, but Nixo mentions what they do. 

On the more engineering side of things, I do not have to mention Ethpandaops and geth as they are well known and also the Protocol support team which coordinates the core devs. The account abstraction team talks with wallet providers and dapp devs on how to coordinate account abstraction efforts. The portal network team is the one which makes it possible that we will have history expiry soon on mainnet, which saves validators a few hundres GB of space in the first step. More to come. The stateless Consensus team got a bit rug pulled by the cryptography team when the cryptography team found that newer cryptographic schemes can improve statelessness. A lot of stateless consensus teams implementations of verkle trees has most probably been for nothing. Nevertheless, statelessness is essential for the future scaling of Ethereum, which means their engineering effort is essential for Ethereum. The steel teams works on formalising the Execution specifications and write tests for them. This is something that needs to be done. Until recently the execution layer was not really specified properly and people just took geth as the reference when writing their own client. Having a properly specified and tested execution spec will idealy help in analysing potential issues in future upgrades before they are found in the final implementation. Some other teams like the snake charmers (python) and the javascript teams have their own projects, but as far as I understand are also as supporting other teams if they need a specific implementation of something in their respective programming language. The Ipsilon team do implementations and analysis of EIP which concern the EVM. The only team I have never heard of is the P2P networking team. Apparently they are the maintainers of the libp2p library for the go programming language. 

Not sure I directly see from this what could be cut away. If I would have to split something off, I personally think geth does not have to be an integral part of the EF anymore as there are now many flourishing client teams outside of the EF which ensure that there is a lot of client diversity. But I am also not sure how much the geth team really costs the EF as I would guess a large part of their salary is paid by the protocol guild (\~70k$ of the total salary). Maybe there is a way to split the geth team (and P2P Networking team with it) into its own separate entity. To do this properly will need a lot of work as all the other client teams have several legs to stand on regarding income.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hereimalive covers a breakthrough piece of research</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kqxpp4/daily_general_discussion_may_20_2025/mtdz1sx/)

https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/1924929057676001466?t=3dcwdilEutpSQ_eKdSKquQ&s=19

🤯 real-time proving is here 🤯

Mainnet EVM blocks proven in under 1 Ethereum slot (12s). Goosebumps.

Succinct proves every Ethereum L1 block:

→ 94% in <12s
→ 99% in <13s
→ 99.9% in <12s, soon™

Yesterday RISC Zero unveiled a $120K home GPU cluster—proofs expected in 9.25s. Brevis, OpenVM, Snarkify, ZisK, ZKM are weeks from joining the real-time club.

Soon™ my validator will verify EVM blocks on a Rasberry Pi Pico—a $5 board that consumes <1W. I will ditch my EL client in favour of a zkEL. No 1 TB NVMe. Goodbye Geth, hello zkReth. Stateless and RAMless verification in milliseconds on a single CPU core.

With real-time proving 1 gigagas/sec (10K TPS) is within reach, without compromising validator decentralisation. From now on expect regular gas limit bumps. 10% of stake is already voting for a 60M limit—your validators can too.

Snarkifying mainnet turns Ethereum L1 into the first based and native rollup. Stage 2. Bug-free. Decentralised sequencing. No security council. No governance. The L1 will lead by example.

This Friday we celebrate. Join us for Ethproofs call #2, May 23 at 2pm UTC. 25 speakers, 2 hours of content. Calls are open—DM @corcoranwill for a calendar invite.

We are witnessing history. Believe in something real. Believe in real-time proving.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/earthquakequestion encourages us to be less responsive to the price action of an individual day</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1krqo5y/daily_general_discussion_may_21_2025/mtiikmf/)

Some of you live or die by the price on any given day and need to relax.  Real time proving yesterday, Tomasz is killing it on Twitter today with followups on where things are and what hirings need to happen for different areas where the ethereum teams fall short...the genius act going through Congress.

Look I truly need eth to do well this cycle because AI is likely to replace me at my job in the coming year...but on the flip side as many have said a million times.  This is a marathon, not a sprint.  Things truly are shifting and looking great for Ethereum right now.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Turkish2026 is tracking the GENIUS stablecoin bill and explains what it mandates</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kq4i2u/daily_general_discussion_may_19_2025/mt382n7/)

The U.S. Senate is poised to pass the GENIUS Act (Guiding and Establishing National Innovation for U.S. Stablecoins).

The U.S. Senate is scheduled to vote on the GENIUS Act today, Monday, May 19, 2025, at approximately 5:30 p.m. EDT.  

I'm expecting price volatility today around this.  Let's hope it passes.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://old.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kq4i2u/daily_general_discussion_may_19_2025/mt3k9jy/)

The GENIUS Act requires stablecoin issuers to back tokens 1:1 with assets like USD and Treasuries, disclose reserves monthly, and comply with AML rules. It allows state oversight for issuers with ≤$10B in issuance, unlike the STABLE Act's strict federal oversight. GENIUS permits broader reserve assets and studies algorithmic stablecoins, while STABLE bans them for 2 years.

So the GENIUS Act is a lot more liberal.

</details>

