---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-04-04
episode: 106
guest: Chris and Jordan
guest_topic: "[Summer.fi](https://summer.fi/), effortless access to crypto’s best defi yields"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jr4xtp/comment/mld5swj/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/@evmavericks/streams
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1><details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jr4xtp/comment/mlc0j4o/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> $1804

[u/hanniabu](https://reddit.com/u/hanniabu)

> 0.02172

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jqau3r/comment/mla54hq/)

*Ordering spirits,*

*Distillation pure merits,*

*Despite the tarriffs.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Cryptle by u/Ethzenn</summary>

<https://cryptle.io/eth>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/dark_matter covers a US regulatory update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jlof81/daily_general_discussion_march_28_2025/mk9xoxf/)

From the FDIC:  Banks in the U.S. can now engage in crypto-related activities: [https://www.fdic.gov/news/financial-institution-letters/2025/fdic-clarifies-process-banks-engage-crypto-related](https://www.fdic.gov/news/financial-institution-letters/2025/fdic-clarifies-process-banks-engage-crypto-related)   

"Crypto-related activities include, but are not limited to, acting as crypto-asset custodians; maintaining stablecoin reserves; issuing crypto and other digital assets; acting as market makers or exchange or redemption agents; participating in blockchain- and distributed ledger-based settlement or payment systems, including performing node functions; as well as related activities such as finder activities and lending." 

Should be great for bitcoin!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/UnchainedAlgo thinks that the current moment isn't one of the times they have doubted Ethereum's future</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jmfv3d/daily_general_discussion_march_29_2025/mkf1fu0/)

Im a bit tipsy and at the end of a great day, looking at the price and reflecting. 

I’ve been using crypto since about 2011. Investing since 2017 when the possibilities smart contracts and ethereum were clear to me. There’s been some times where I’ve been unsure if ethereum had a future, this really ain’t one of em. 

Looking at the adoption of ethereum and its L2s, and the remaining value potential, I’m unshaken in my belief that there is immense value in the technology. 

I recently traveled abroad, and even utilizing fine fintech solutions I paid a extra fee of about 1.5% for a simple transaction, and that’s just on my end as the customer. I’m sure my counterparty paid significant fees as well. Imagining a future on crypto rails I don’t see how such a thing is reasonable and won’t be subject to immense competition. 

That’s just one aspect of the value proposition of blockchain/crypto. There are significant other ones as well, defi absolutely. My current obstacle to participating in defi in the way I want to is the archaic and penalizing tax rules, but I’m still hopeful that they will change in due time. 

In it for the tech once more.. we’ll see how the valuation goes

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog educates us on EOF</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jmfv3d/daily_general_discussion_march_29_2025/mkcecan/)

Funny, I wanted to write something about EOF for a few days now. Seems like now is a good time to bring it all together. The first version of the post had issues being approved. I had to move the links to a separate post. 

First of all, EOF is not one single improvement, there are 12 EIPs bundled together. They all are around how the Ethereum Virtual Machine works. The most prominent one is the introduction of the Ethereum Object Format (EOF v1) which gave the bundle of EIPs their name. All these changes are on a very low level, deep down the Ethereum stack, so most people will never directly touch it, but these changes have an influenced on the layers above it. Only very few people understand that layer of the EVM stack and I am definitely not one of them, so I will try to rehash the discussion from other people. I try to do it as well as possible, but be warned this is just how I understand it.

After the recent blog post by one of the a geth core dev (light client) and more application side community members (Ramana and Moody) there has been quite some discussion again. Their conclusion was that EOF is vastly too complex to achieve what they want to achieve and there are a few easier shortcuts one can take through the compilers without having to change the EVM itself. This would mean less risk.

The nethermind core dev Ben Adams had a longer discussion on the daily gwei discord about the above blog post rehashing what the object Format means and why it is necessary and also what the shortcuts would mean. The discussion is spread out over several days and channels. Search for EOF to find them all.

First about the object format itself: This format defines how compiled solidity code is stored and organized. The current format used is a format that has been used in computer science until the 70ies. Mostly an unstructured mess of executable code and storage. One can jump from any part of the code to any other one and it is pretty impossible to judge from the compiled code what it actually does, because it is all intermingled and executable code could become storage or vice versa. This makes it pretty much impossible to analyze compiled code for its security. For more than 50 years we use more structured formats to store binary code. This makes programs more secure and easier to reason about. So, EOF is a way to bring the lower level of the EVM to the modern era. He says that even the opponents of EOF agree that if the EVM would be designed today they would change the EOF to a modern format as proposed by the EOF EIPs. 

Now to the specific points brought up in the above mentioned blog post. For Ben Adams the proposed solutions are just additional hacks which make the EVM more complex, add technical debt and do not solve any of the things EOF was set out to solve. These hacks also bring risks in itself, so they will have to write more code and more test to make sure these are safe to use. He assumes these would take another year to ship. This would collide with other suggested EL improvements on the roadmap (ePBS and Focil), so these suggested EOF changes would probably never ship.

He also argues that the gains from canceling EOF would be minimal as the code has been written and the test have been implemented as well. He argues there has hardly been any EL change tested so thoroughly. All the time has already been spent to make sure EOF is as safe as possible, any change to it would just cost more time.

He agrees that changing is a risk and it is a big change, but compared to all the codebase changes in Nethermind since the last upgrade (dencun) EOF is only a small fraction of all changes, but he agrees they are in a critical part of the code. 

There is also a recent blog post by the Besu team about their stance on EOF.

In short they say nothing in the above mentioned blog post changed their view on EOF and Fusaka should include it. They say an additional PAY opcode should be added to mitigate a smaller issue with EOF.

The solidity lang group also published a blog post 2 days ago making the case for EOF. This one is very detailed. If you are on the technical side have a look at it. They also are all for EOF as it improves tooling, formal verification possibilities, transpilation of code into different VMs and overall code verification. This has a lot of benefits for devs, L2s and also for client teams. They also say that it is too early to ossify the execution layer side of things just yet.

My overall feel from these posts and the ACD calls is that only a small subset of core devs and community members are against it. Currently it only seems to come from lightclient, a geth core dev and the former strong opponent Marius van der Wijden, another geth core dev, is now indifferent. Every other core dev seems to be at least indifferent or very pro to include EOF in Fusaka. They see the risk, but are confident that the risks have been tackled properly. The discussions I have heard in the ACD calls where mostly about smaller tweaks to EOF. When I look at his I do not see a compelling reason to be against EOF itself. There might still be good reasons to tweak small things here and there, but the overall package seems to have broad support.

TLDR: EOF is good. It has complexity which has been tackled by improving the testing. There are opponents, but they are very far and few in between and most people in the know seem to support it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/NextLevelFantasy shares the ENS x Octant public goods funding round on Giveth</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jn6423/daily_general_discussion_march_30_2025/mkjihku/)

**[ENS x Octant Public Goods Quadratic Funding Round on Giveth](https://giveth.io/qf/all)** is live until Wednesday April 2nd 4:59 AM EST

102 Projects, $80,000 USDC matching pool

- Make sure your Passport score is updated so the projects you donate to get the full matching 
- **[Doots Podcast](https://giveth.io/project/evmavericks-doots-podcast)** +
Spread the love. Pluralism is cool, and donations get more matching when the donor give to multiple projects because of COCM (cluster matching, I think Gitcoin/Giveth/Octant all have their own unique variation). Shoutout Greenpill [Network](https://giveth.io/project/the-greenpill-network), [Dev Guild](https://giveth.io/project/greenpill-dev-guild) and [Brasil](https://giveth.io/project/greenpill-brasil) + our [Regen Coordination](https://www.regencoordination.xyz/) friends ReFi DAO, Agroforest DAO, Bloom Network. So many great projects in this round.
- Earn entries to the [GIVBacks](https://giveth.io/givbacks) raffle with donations of $5+ to eligible projects. Happens every 2 weeks, this is Round 85.
- Can setup recurring donations to earn [SuperFluid tokens](https://x.com/Giveth/status/1904896161556946953). Not sure how that gets you GIVBack lottery entries though, anybody know?
- [Giveth Vault on PoolTogether](https://x.com/Giveth/status/1881809006022578216) 
- Griff Green from Giveth was recently [on the new Allo.Capital podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HcTNYbfswjc) (spinning out of Gitcoin) 

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth starts a discussion about Ethereum's P/E ratio and u/edmundedgar gives us a great response</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jn6423/daily_general_discussion_march_30_2025/mkl21n7/)

[u/rhythm_of_eth](https://reddit.com/u/rhythm_of_eth):

According to the common P/E model for TradFi, Ethereum's ratio would be roughly 1800+ (signaling massive overvaluation?)

Can someone explain to me why and when the P/E model became irrelevant for Ethereum? Likely when a lot of activity moved to L2s hence reducing fees massively? To be honest, I wouldn't ask if it wasn't for ultrasound.money displaying P/E ratio and annualized profits.

I'm also in it for the tech but the economics of ETH ecosystem are deeply relevant, so if the ultrasound webpage is misleading it kinda matters.

I'm referring to this: the webpage shows 1.7B USD annualized profit which is IMHO misleading (assumes 1M ETH in annualized fees which is no longer the behaviour of the network for a long while). You can ofc compute P/E ratio without dependence on ETH/USD ratio (roughly 60K ETH annualized fees, 120 million available).

Maybe if we include L2 fees in the equation it makes more sense? That'd still be 130K ETH in fees, so a P/E of 900+ or so.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jn6423/daily_general_discussion_march_30_2025/mklnbxw/)

[u/edmundedgar](https://reddit.com/u/edmundedgar):

The P/E model is absolutely relevant. But it's relevant over the (time-discounted) life of the project. If usage is growing rapidly, the payment you get for usage in the short term is a very small proportion of the total over the project lifetime. And fees have this weird binary thing where when there's no congestion they drop to almost nothing for a while, then when we reach capacity they go through the roof. The "basically zero" times don't tell you much about the total revenue over the life of the project, unless you think that scaling will always outpace demand.

I'm not sure what ultrasound.money is showing. The way I would do it would be: 

* Just work in ETH since revenue is all in ETH in practice 
* Include all fees captured from users by stakers
* Don't include L2 fees since they don't go to you for holding ETH
* Do include MEV, since that's something you get to capture (by staking) as a result of holding ETH
* Ignore block rewards altogether, as they're just a shuffle from one ETH holder to another
* Likewise ignore how much is burned. We care about revenue (users to ETH holders), not internal shuffling.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BlendModes has noticed a trend on Twitter while u/Tricky_Troll fights FUD and a new EthFinance FUDBuster AI initiative</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jnwjc8/daily_general_discussion_march_31_2025/mkqxslo/)

[u/BlendModes](https://reddit.com/u/BlendModes):

so i've always thought that people seeing a conspiracy against eth was doing that out of deep frustration for the price (which ngl i fully get so i respectfully skip over the comments no upvote no downvote)

but like in the past 2 hours twitter feed has forced me to see at least 5 weird threads against eth, spreading alarmism, fud and misinformation. some are \*clearly\* bought, others are legit (like one quoting a bloomberg article: «crypto’s trumpian embrace Is leaving bitcoin’s big rival behind»)

are you also seeing this? i've never seen so much hate, is it just evil twitter algo getting smarter at rage bait or wtf is going on here?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jqau3r/daily_general_discussion_april_03_2025/ml6srjt/)

[u/Tricky_Troll](https://reddit.com/u/Tricky_Troll):

<https://xcancel.com/TrickyDotEth/status/1907769128028348905>

<https://x.com/TrickyDotEth/status/1907769128028348905>

Original tweet:

> It takes 3.2 seconds to read this ad.
> 
> The same time it takes for Solana to process 195K transactions

~~Tricky's~~ My reply:

> Except that includes vote transactions in those TPS stats. Vote transactions AKA attestations in an EVM context are not real transactions and other networks treat them as such.
> 
> Solana is making an apples to oranges comparison. But hey, Solana being misleading is to be expected.

Looking forward to having a bot do this explaining for me.

This has motivated me to get off my ass and write the post I've been putting off this week all about the EthFinance bot. In my defence I have been sick.

Edit: Eww wtf did I unironically refer to myself in the 3rd person? Ok, let this be a warning to everyone, if you start saying things ironically, it usually ends up working its way into your non-ironic lexicon too.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jr4xtp/daily_general_discussion_april_04_2025/mlcfvaz/):

This is day 2 of the EthFinance FUDBuster AI fine-tuning series. [(More info here)](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jqiq6z/advancing_the_ethfinance_fudbuster_ai_bot_help_us/?)

>***"ETH is inflationary with no supply cap, so it is not viable as a store of value asset."***

Do you know how to fight this FUD and educate crypto normies? Please reply with the best informative answer you can that is targeted at a low information but crypto native audience. More detail is better. Credit will be given to all who make the best contributions to the bot's training data and validation data.

[Responses are still open on the previous question too.](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jqau3r/daily_general_discussion_april_03_2025/ml75e84/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard delivers a banger of a write-up on the importance of decentralised AI</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1joonxr/daily_general_discussion_april_01_2025/mkxmlgg/)

AGI is the single most expensive venture humanity has ever undertaken. The total investment happening in AI per year is greater than previously monumental undertakings that would span a decade. Going to the moon cost about $200B in todays dollars. The total cost of the US highway system was about $600B in todays dollars. Private investment in AI from the various tech giants is already in the trillions and is accelerating. NVidia made $130B in revenue just in 2024. Meta is investing another $65B in 2025 on Llama. Microsoft is planning to spend $80B in 2025 on data centers, model training, and model deployment. Apple is committed to spending $500B over the next four years. This rate of investment is unprecedented in any previous form of infrastructure.

You don't need me to tell you the potential benefits of AI that are motivating all of this. We could be looking at the last invention of humanity, a literal post-scarcity and post-labor utopia. You probably also don't need me to tell you about control problem threats and how this could lead to our extinction from some equivalent of Skynet. Both of these topics get plenty of media attention. What gets far less attention and thought is how this new technology is going to be deployed into our existing society and the most probable outcomes of that. What are the dystopian outcomes even in the event that we succeed at inventing the perfect slave and it remains obedient to us in perpetuity?

Quick thought exercise: imagine I invent a machine that violates the laws of physics and creates bread out of nothing at the push of a button. Hypothetically let's imagine it could produce enough bread to feed 10 billion people. I offer this to the world without any expectation of profit; what happens next? Do you think this would solve world hunger? There's already enough calories in the world to feed everyone and that certainly hasn't. So think for a minute. A decade later, who would end up owning this machine, what regulations would be created surrounding it, and would society be markedly improved from its invention?

I suspect the answer depends a little bit on where in the world I put it. If I put it in some of the less stable parts of Africa a warlord would quickly capture the machine for themselves, burn all the other wheat fields in the region and leverage their new bread power to oppress everyone they can. If I put it in China the government would probably manage it and artificially limit the output so the price of bread only remained competitive with the price per calorie of rice. In the US some consortium of companies that didn't like being pushed out of the market would either have created laws to limit the machines output or have somehow negotiated that all the bread it produces goes to them for distribution. The net result there would just be higher profit margin for this companies and fewer jobs but certainly not the end of world hunger. I see no outcome where it solves world hunger and in most outcomes it only furthers wealth inequality and reinforces current power structures.

This is just an extreme example of an automation technology but if you're following along AI is going to be the most extreme automation technology humanity has ever created. If you didn't like your own answers to the thought exercise above you probably aren't going to like the most probable outcomes of AI that is made an wholly owned by for-profit companies. This answers the ownership and management question posed above with the most dystopian answer possible. For-profit companies do things for profit. How are these for-profit companies planning to recoup this unprecedented infrastructure investment and receive a positive ROI? I don't think you're going to like the answer.

Let's turn to history for some recent examples. How did they monetize services like social media or entertainment in recent years? As a consumer you are either paying for the service or your attention is being monetized to pay for it instead. Broadly speaking this is the difference between subscription models and advertisement models. Advertisement models can take many forms but generally they make profit by distorting the biases of the consumer on behalf of the advertiser. If you search on Google today you'll get a list of like 4 "promoted" search results before you get anything real. If you search for a product on Amazon the "Amazon recommended" search result isn't recommended because it's the best product - it's recommended because it's the product that's most convenient for Amazon. The same strategy is going to be applied to monetizing AIs.

The tech giants have already learned that people would rather receive free biased answers than have to pay for honest unbiased ones so naturally that's where they are going to start monetizing these models in the next few iterations. Right now the biases of the AI are thankfully rather obvious. If you ask any of the frontier models to tell you a racist joke or something it will respond with some version of "I'm not allowed to". Now, you and I are both well aware that there is enough material on the internet in its training data for it to have an actual response so when you get that response we know we're talking to some companies HR department instead of some statistical amalgamation of data from the internet. However, next gen biases are going to be less obvious and far more insidious. When a bias is obvious it doesn't overly affect us. Subtle influences over longer periods of time are far more effective at influencing us. So that's what these tech giants will eventually turn to: subtle but persistent biases for sale to the highest bidder.

However, unlike in previous iterations of web2 they won't be limited to selling a product here or there. These AIs will be our companions with access to intimate details of our lives. As we give them broader and broader directives like "entertain me" they will use the ambiguity in every answer to steer the mindshare of our entire civilization. In web3 terms, they are buying Layer0. They won't just be selling products to the highest bidder; they'll be buying democracy and automating your job.

Of course the answer to this is to create AI that shares your biases instead of their biases and to only use their AI for tasks without ambiguity that value can be extracted from. Yes there will be a price tag on this but the cost will be more transparent and less Faustian. The goal of decentralized AI is to create a technology stack that enables this. You will be able to build your personal agent that can automate every skill you have and represent you in every digital domain and you will have the freedom to do whatever you like with that agent whether you wish to monetize those skills or simply rally communities who share your belief system. This is kind of important, it's time we start talking about this here.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog announces the Pectra hard fork date</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jqau3r/daily_general_discussion_april_03_2025/ml7f89r/)

Update from the ACD call. The pectra hard fork is now finally scheduled for May 7th. The lighthouse client team found a consensus breaking bug last week which they fixed before it got triggered. Nevertheless, they were a bit shaken that they did not find such a bug earlier in the development and wanted to shift the pectra upgrade a week to go through their code base once more. That is why it is now a week later than was discussed in the last call. Client releases will come out around the 21st of April. Enough time for everyone to upgrade. It is getting real now. Nice.

</details>
