---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-03-14
episode: 103
guest: Andy Lower
guest_topic: "[Scenario Protocol](https://www.scenarioprotocol.io/), blockchain alerts powered by consensus mechanisms"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jax69o/comment/mhqo093/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/@evmavericks/streams
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jax69o/comment/mhpebsa/)

[u/DayTraderBiH](https://reddit.com/u/DayTraderBiH)

> Ethereum!

[u/Ethzenn](https://reddit.com/u/Ethzenn)

> $1,893

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0231

[u/betterluckythengood](https://reddit.com/u/betterluckythengood)

> Homestead update officially went live on March 14, 2016, at block 1,150,000. It was the first planned hard fork of the network, moving it from its initial Frontier phase.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ja5dmp/comment/mhn2pkf/)

*Not living the dream,*

*Laughing out loud for the meme,*

*Pour one for the team.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Choda time!</summary>
[View on Reddit →]()

༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ ETH TAKE MY ENERGY ༼ つ ◕_◕ ༽つ

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Stats with u/Dreth</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jax69o/comment/mhppntc/)

# ETH stats

UTC Timestamp: **2025-03-14T08:03:00Z**

## Price and supply

| Metric                          | Value       |
|:--------------------------------|:------------|
| Current ETH price               | 1,892       |
| 24h change (%)                  | 1           |
| Average ETH price over 1 day    | 1,876       |
| Average ETH price over 7 days   | 2,007       |
| Average ETH price over 30 days  | 2,397       |
| Supply at merge                 | 120,521,140 |
| Current supply                  | 120,609,085 |
| Supply differential since merge | 87,944      |
| Total inflation since merge (%) | 0.07        |

## ETF Flow (in millions of USD)

### Summary

| Metric                                  |   Value |
|:----------------------------------------|--------:|
| Total ETF Flow                          |  2585.5 |
| Total ETF Flow over the last 3 days     |  -105.5 |
| Total ETF Flow on the last recorded day |   -73.6 |

### ETF Flow (last 3 days)

| Entity    |   2025-03-11 |   2025-03-12 |   2025-03-13 |   Total |
|:----------|-------------:|-------------:|-------------:|--------:|
| Blackrock |        -11.8 |          0   |        -15.1 |   -26.9 |
| Fidelity  |         -9.8 |         -3.7 |        -12.5 |   -26   |
| 21 Shares |          0   |         -1.7 |         -0.5 |    -2.2 |
| VanEck    |          0   |          0   |          1.4 |     1.4 |
| Franklin  |          0   |         -1.4 |          0   |    -1.4 |
| Grayscale |          0   |          0   |        -41.7 |   -41.7 |
| Grayscale |          0   |         -3.5 |         -5.2 |    -8.7 |

#### Sources

- [ultrasound.money](https://ultrasound.money)
- [farside.co.uk](https://farside.co.uk/eth)
- [farside.co.uk ETH ETF full historical tables](https://farside.co.uk/ethereum-etf-flow-all-data/)
- [coinglass.com](https://coinglass.com/)

##### [Previous post](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ja5dmp/daily_general_discussion_march_13_2025/mhlhm1p/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/EternalShadowBan</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j9cuge/daily_general_discussion_march_12_2025/mhg59w8/)

A 4.69% move from here is 1968. Guess what happens when we get to 1968? that's right, Terry Crews is born, and he slaps the crab so hard it flies back to the where it belongs - the ocean! and what's there in the ocean? That’s right! An ancient, secret underwater citadel where the Atlanteans have been hoarding all the liquidity of the past years. The second the crab splashes down, it triggers a long-forgotten smart contract written in whale song, unlocking trillions in submerged Ethereum reserves.

At this point, Terry Crews, now infused with the raw power of decentralized finance, flexes so hard that his gas is bottled and is used for paying for transactions on Ethereum;  Vitalik appears out of nowhere, riding a cybernetic dolphin, and declares that he will now eat stakes for breakfast, and for each stake eaten he will recompense its owner with double the amount of ETH. People and institutions line up to stake Ethereum. The SEC panics. Wall Street collapses into a singularity of pure cope.

Everybody gets to sell at 10k and is finally financially independently.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/timwithnotoolbelt wants to get back to the basics and u/morafresa is still here for the values</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j6blzq/daily_general_discussion_march_08_2025/mgpypkh/)

[u/timwithnotoolbelt](https://reddit.com/u/timwithnotoolbelt):

I dont come here to read about Bitcoin, Solana, XRP, and American politics. The idea that these are somehow relevant to Ethereum’s success is misguided at best. 

Do not get me wrong I do believe Ethereum price is most dependent on BTC still. But I also believe the community continuing to focus on BTC is not beneficial for ETH price and definitely not for Ethereum’s success. 

Why does Ethereum win? Its not because it overtakes BTC or BTC fails. It’s not even in competition with Solana. It doesn’t win because Trump pump and dumps it. It wins because its a decentralized permissionless network that can benefit everyone. Automation is here more than ever and Ethereum is THE automation of value.

Lets get back to the basics and stop falling for the distractions and concern trolling. Gas is sub 1 wei. If you want to know why the price isnt skyrocketing thats the reason and it aint the EF’s fault either.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j6blzq/daily_general_discussion_march_08_2025/mgngd3w/)

[u/morafresa](https://reddit.com/u/morafresa):

I just really hope for Ethereum to be the crypto of cypherpunk values that I originally fell in love with. An actual progressive means for society to move forward.

All other projects aren't that, including Bitcoin. And the whole space has been co-opted by greedy power hungry imbeciles.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/christianc750 thinks that Ethereum already has its path to success with stablecoins</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j6blzq/daily_general_discussion_march_08_2025/mgra0f6/)

ETH has the stable coin network effect captured.

If and/or when the US fully regulates stablecoins such that every bank, point of sale terminal and website can consume it as a form of payment. How much scale alone would that bring to the ETH network and it's L2s?

Just off of an already established use case.

We might be missing the forest for the trees here ...

It's funny because I remember how dumb I thought Apple Pay was when it was first announced. I have my credit card already in my wallet ... Years later, once all the new point of sales machines got adopted ... I'm angry if i have to go into my wallet.

I sorta felt the same with stables and DEXs. They felt so useless until you start using them, moving my money around so freely is just how it should be. Honestly for any sports betters out there, try using a site like thunderpick that has USDC withdrawals. 

Stablecoins are also programmable with APIs for those who have never developed before. They make moving money in an app or corporate treasury so easy... I could go on an on.

I know they are boring and not moon boy memes but if we all remain ETH bulls we need to remember real world use is what ultimately consumes gas (ie drives eth demand). Stablecoins are it and they are on ETH... Let's get them into the hands of the people they are just infinitely better forms if payment and remittance all rolled into one.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BitcoinBaller420 asks why they should hold ETH and gets some amazing responses from u/sm3gh34d and u/LogrisTheBard</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j6blzq/daily_general_discussion_march_08_2025/mgoz0km/)

[u/BitcoinBaller420](https://reddit.com/u/BitcoinBaller420):

I used to have a substantial portion of my net assets in ETH, and now I own almost none.  I'm looking for someone to change my mind, I have only shifted on a couple of concerns.  I see the value of decentralization, and in Turing complete, trust-less computation.  I see that ETH has a moat of some kind as the first to try to be a world computer and most adoption, at least by some metrics, I'm sure.  My questions are these:

\- can you say more to convince me that ETH's moat is based on some kind of network effect?  I think the core argument is that decentralization and trustlessness are network effects, and these allow the most users to participate, and I accept this.  My concern is that maybe the security only needs to match the level of the transaction, and as such, there's more room for competition from something like say Solana to trade off security for improvements in other dimensions and in the end the users want cheap they don't care about the protocol.  What am I missing? (disclosure, I own < $20 worth of SOL)

\- I'm also concerned about the disconnect between the goals of the devs and the goals of the investors.  The investors of course want the value of the coin to increase (I assume?), but the devs, while they are surely also holders, are also acting to help the consumers of the network, who want the coin to be as close to free as possible.  So while dev improvements to improve throughput and reduce transaction fees are great for the users of the network, they are only good for investors if they also result in so much more demand that it offsets the reduction in demand caused by the improvement (implicit in, say, the reduction of fees.  Users want to buy as little as possible to get their code executed).  I think the argument is that the burning of ETH when the network gets more usage offsets to balance the desires of investors and users, but I'm not smart enough to intuit whether this kind of balancing will work out for the investors or not.  Considering my uncertainty, it doesn't quite reach the hurdle rate of return-on-risk for me.  But it's close, maybe a few more words of education would help?  

Thanks in advance.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j6blzq/daily_general_discussion_march_08_2025/mgpauq5/)

[u/sm3gh34d](https://reddit.com/u/sm3gh34d):

Both of your points I think are related to long term vs short term visions.  Ethereum core devs are aware of price impacts but are more interested in adoption and scaling without compromising on trustlessness, decentralization, censorship resistance, etc.  I don't think Vitalik and EF research would characterize the push for cheap block space as 'growing the moat', but IMO that is the underlying strategy.

As a dev and a holder and a solo staker, I am ambivalent about the direction we are taking to increase blockspace without regard for protocol revenue in the short term.  It is very much a "loss leading" adoption play.  That 48/72 blobs (by end of year) and L1 gas limit increases (in the ballpark of 2 - 10x) are the focus in the current climate of record low gas prices shows how little Vitalik and research are concerned about protocol revenue in the short term.

I think the value prop of ethereum lies in long term time horizon.  I don't see any \*fundamental\* price catalysts on the horizon.  It is basically a race to see whether ethereum's roadmap can play out faster than competitors.  The only viable competitor presently is Solana.

TL/DR my opinion is that if you are looking to speculate on ETH price, the winning play is to DCA in the bear, which arguably has started.  Expect pay off or write off in 4 years.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j6blzq/daily_general_discussion_march_08_2025/mgqayof/)

[u/LogrisTheBard](https://reddit.com/u/LogrisTheBard):

> can you say more to convince me that ETH's moat is based on some kind of network effect?

There is definitely momentum to capital being drawn to other capital. Having capital in a protocol for a long time without hacks is it's own type of proof of security. So when more capital wants to deploy, it chooses the protocol with the best security record. Users may care about a $0.05 transaction fee, but hundreds of billions of dollars of bank deposits coming to the chain or a tokenized securities marketplace won't care about that nearly as much as security. There's also the fact that Ethereum has never once had downtime since inception which can't be said of Solana or Ripple even in the last year.

I frankly think the market undervalues decentralization to the extent they even understand it at all. I agree with you that the security only needs to match the level of the transaction; that's basically the point of Ethereum's L2 model. It's worth noting that Solana isn't practically much cheaper than most Ethereum L2s at this point. The TPS numbers of Solana are deliberately misleading in that they include validator gossip where Ethereum's TPS numbers do not. Ethereum will outscale Solana for fundamental reasons. Maybe read [Polynya's blog](https://polynya.mirror.xyz/) if you're curious. He was posting in like 2021 about fundamental truths that Solana will *never* be able to address with their approach.

> I'm also concerned about the disconnect between the goals of the devs and the goals of the investors.

The most valid complaint I've seen is that the EF wants to take no part in an advocacy role in the ecosystem. Bitcoin has no foundation so their ecosystem picks up this role themselves. Solana has the Solana Foundation which takes up this mantle themselves willingly. Ethereum has this kind of void where an advocacy department should be. This makes investors feel deprioritized as all the EF focuses is on is tech.

Etherealize was launched earlier this year to address this gap. Give it a few months to spin up. I think the people involved are genuine and capable.

Regarding a burn model. Just think of it as a socialized reward to everyone who holds ETH. Inflation is a wealth tax. Burn is the opposite of inflation. For ETH price to grow significantly we just want the network to scale to thousands of blobs per block with very cheap blobs. I read a Vitalik post recently that said if the current (rock bottom) blob prices were maintained as the network scales according to its plan we would be seeing 3% deflation. No other blockchain has a monetary policy that comes close to that. But for that vision to come true we need a lot of adoption. Right now infra is ahead of apps.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard has a call to action for the community</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j7s0e4/daily_general_discussion_march_10_2025/mh37lfi/)

Especially on days like today where everything seems gloomy I'm going to recommend you step away from price action and find something more positive to focus on. Watching the red candles won't help you; either sell or don't then focus on something better. Go touch grass. Explore something new on chain. Come back and discuss it here. Lift the sentiment. Be part of the change you want to see in the world.

As the web3 ecosystem has evolved and pioneered tokenomics designs beyond the primitives already understood by Tradfi I feel that attention has shifted away from the app layer. In the previous bull market, through the food token frenzy of 2020 and the initial adoption of L2s I used to see frequent discussions about how people were using the chain. I would read stories about people looping in Compound, Alchemix questions, and what people were doing on Loopring or Dydx. The enthusiasm for that discussion seems to have died (to our detriment).

I still find plenty of technical discussion on the L2 strategy of Ethereum but the pendulum of development and attention between infrastructure and application has swung back too far to the infrastructure side. Last year, other than discussion about airdrop farming and Pendle, I saw very little discussion about how people were using the chain at all. Today we see very few podcasts or writers focusing on novel innovation in the app space.

So, call to action, go learn something positive and come back and share it here today instead of staring at your gory portfolio.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog has a big update from the Holesky testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j7s0e4/daily_general_discussion_march_10_2025/mh2r0lf/)

After 2 weeks of non-finality on the holesky testnet after the pectra upgrade, the chain just finalized again. This is quite an achievement as the network had many forks and clients had to keep track of all the different attestations to the different forks. Client teams had the chance to massively improve their clients as such a scenario would have been very hard to do in an isolated test environment. For me, it was Lodestart which did an outstanding job and thanks to them I was able to be stay online. There still are tweaks to improve the all the clients though. 

Now that it is finalized, it should be much easier to sync the chain again and even with 32 GB RAM it should be possible to stay synced. The holesky testnet is not out of thew woods yet. We are only barely finalizing 67-68% and a newer epoch went down to 31% again. Maybe the clients are now scrubbing all the unneeded forks which uses up all the CPU power. The exit queue is also massive. There are over 990k validators there. Over half of all the holesky validators. They will now slowly get exited. Maybe the core devs will follow through with the slashing as well. We will see.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Hocilef shares his OG 2 wei</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j8k469/daily_general_discussion_march_11_2025/mh69bgy/)

My not-OG 2 cents:

Crypto went to far from its original ideal and is naturally resetting, macro/grift/crime was just the trigger. There seems to be a consensus that cycle is over, Ethereum missed it and that top is in. I feel like the fast money/casino/non-nonsensical speculation is mostly done (not calling for the death of memecoin, I am actually hodling some ERC20 ticker bitcoin the only bitcoin without security issue).

But you read everywhere that institutions are very enthusiastic, so the cycle framework feels less relevant. Grandpa is undeniably a novel macro asset, every financial institution is looking into stablecoins and tokenization. Imho they won't touch vaporware coin but use the wonderful infra that has been developed by genius dev (for free). Odds are good for Ethereum to be the global settlement layer in this scenario. But is ETH an investable asset? I think that's a fair question to ask, you don't need that much ETH to actually use the infra.

Ethereum is fundamentally misunderstood. The complexity of what it is trying to accomplish blurs the message. The Ethereum Foundation communication, ultrasound money meme and maxis weren't helping in hindsight. This gave a wonderful opportunity for competitor in the store of value/smart contract platform/data availability/ space to squeeze ETH propagating narratives. Even CT entertainment account I enjoy like inversebrah are relentlessly shitting on ETH, sad.

But I don't think institutions looking to tokenize will check CT to pick the network they put client assets on. Credibly neutral, reliable, secure should be the priority.  If you don't believe or don't get that the only chain satisfying these condition is Ethereum, I don't have time to try to convince (I have to go top-up collateral on aave). New Ethereum foundation leadership and Etherealize (lessgo Danny) increase the odds for Ethereum to succeed. If the network proves itself useful for a larger audience then educated investor should realize that ETH as more secure and programmable, is a fundamentally better store of value.

Every chain is trying to be Ethereum: from Frankenstein bitcoin L2 and restaking to "network extension" and copy paste DeFi on sqlana. This signal, plus various experts consensus let me think, as a non-technical enthusiast, that the rollup-centric roadmap is correct.

I am willing to hold ether longer, as a far from reasonable chunk of my nw, because 1) Innovation in the industry mostly comes from the brillant Ethereum ecosystem 2) Total crypto market cap is 15% of Gold and ETH dominance is less than 10% 3) I want my digital store of value secure, censorship resistant and programmable.

I just like the ticker ETH, only cypherpunk chain I swear. Shout out to the EVMavericks discord I feel so lucky to have found this place. And no chance I am freaking selling after 10 weekly red candles lmao that's the sell low meme. Time will tell.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Spaghetti_Bolognoto shares their OG perspective - ETH the asset needs to bring back investors soon</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j9cuge/daily_general_discussion_march_12_2025/mhcwdpb/)

Oldtimer here, fortunate to have cashed out significantly in 2017/2021 cycles so I have a more abstract view than most on here but I do still hold btc and ether in levels to keep me interested and I am disappointed with how things are progressing near term. 

In my opinion ethereum the network is fine. If internet programmable monetary rails and finance succeeds in coming decades the Ethereum TVL and stablecoin valuations will rise massively in the future. I think the current roadmap is too forward looking and has allowed retail to disappear to "cheaper" chains like SOL - that was a big mistake. Similar themes such as L2 fragmentation, lack of unified UX etc are well documented and I won't discuss further but haven't helped users - these things will be fixed eventually I'm sure. 

The above is all largely irrelevant for ETH the asset and sadly ETH is currently in an emergency situation, one which has been gradually creeping up for awhile.

It isn't fashionable to talk about token values in ethereum circles but ETH is the investment token on the second biggest network in the world by market capitalisation. Recent price performance has been abysmal, both in absolute fiat terms and versus BTC or now, everything else. This demand weakness has been obvious for the last two years (ratio bleed, smaller pumps, bigger drops repeat ad infinitum). It has now culminated in ETH having virtually no bid - from retail, institutions, whales and now even die hard long time holders.

Why do investors hold ETH? To use it, sure, but shuffling stablecoins requires minimal market cap and certainly no growth. No, the honest reasons investors hold ETH (and give the network economic security through staking) is 1) store of value and 2) because there is an expectation that it will appreciate (as had occurred in previous cycles).

Both 1) and 2) are in serious jeopardy right now. Prices performing badly is to be expected by anyone in the space for an extended period. But selective underperformance will only be tolerated for so long before something breaks and there is an exodus and a sudden revaluation much lower. We have seen that gradually play out thus far as people throw in the towel one by one even now with ETHBTC at 5 year lows(!).

Ethereum will chug on regardless. But ETH needs to bring back users/retail/investors and start to put forward a compelling investment thesis _immediately_ or it will fade from here.

Remember the flippening? Remember ultrasound money? The certain knowledge it was just a matter of time before the ETH market cap rose to dominate?

ETH needs to find a bid and assert itself fast.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Cartosys discusses coordinated attacks on Ethereum by the Bitcoin maxi crowd</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j9cuge/daily_general_discussion_march_12_2025/mhdx7fn/)

The word psyops is tinfoily I know but what else would you call what I am writing about below?

This is historically the btc maxi media and trading landscape in regards to ETH:

1. Use social media and news outlets to downplay any achievement, but also hyperbolize / maximize any bad news. I'll demonstrate below how Coindesk & btc maxis have been doing this since day one.
2. Use the media to sway sentiment and place shorts accordingly.

So the first major play was when BTC maxis stoked major contention and vitriol during The DAO debacle. Jimmy Song, Kevin Pham, Pomp, and more did this openly and consistently. Often resorting to personal attacks and even threats on twitter. The masses would repeat the talking points verbatim particularly in discussion threads and on reddit. For a recent example look at the BTC voices during the ByBit hack. It was THEM calling for a hardfork not anyone in the eth community. And it was THEIR publications boosting the hardfork speculations based on that astroturfung. Shit like this is ever present.

Also, funded / provided liquidity for the initial listing of ETC on poloniex. Right at the peak of the largely stoked-by-them drama.  For instance, BTC maxis showed their hypocrisy by suddenly broadcasting major support for ETC--an EVM chain. A complete about-face and what do you think the explanation for that was? It was so their initial liquidity that they injected to Poloniex to list ETC got pumped. And it worked spectacularly both for profit AND fueling the ETH hate. This was the first major gain from manufactured ETH fud, and they've used the formula to short ETH ever since.

Coindesk was the first big crypto news publication and still have yet to write a favorable headline for Ethereum. Let's say whenever a shitcoin rugpulled they'll say "ETHEREUM COIN SCAMS USERS" or in the case of a random token smart contract hack "Hack on ETHEREUM." Plus for good news when a new ETH innovation happens (eg major EIPs implemented, NFT's, DAO's, DeFi protocol launches, PoS transition, etc) they'd say stuff like "new blockchain innovation launched" instead.  This was so flagrant that for years there was a whole movement called [\#SayEthereum](https://x.com/hashtag/SayEthereum?src=hashtag_click). They and many other publications who amplify the BTC maxi signal still don't say it.

This is all so anti blockchain and anti innovation to its core. I've seen many respectable names fall into this tribalism over the years which ultimately & singlularly serves to perpetuate unsupportive narratives that in the end really stifle funding and growth of new and interesting projects. Ethereum brought, and continues to bring so many advancements to blockchain tech which most of the space including Bitcoin have benefitted from, yet credit is stolen, accomplishments shat on, and the Eth leadership that got us there ad hominem-ed. SMH for real.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/grain-rh sees stablecoins as the signal</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j9cuge/daily_general_discussion_march_12_2025/mhdzeyp/)

The reality is that deep down everybody knows there will only be one smart contracting platform of the internet. BTC maxis know it, VCs know it, Solbros know it.  
  
BTC maxis are trying to shoehorn smart contracts via OPCAT, despite ridiculing eth for years.  
VCs missed the boat on eth, and hate it, SOl is how they catch up and control it.  
Stablecoins are the product market fit - and where will they live?  
  
The smart contract platform for stables is the prize, hence why eth is under attack from all sides. Deep down they all know, the race is over and eth has already won. The efforts to promote bitcoin from VCs and prominent officials is most likely to keep the door wedged open to allow their smart contract platform of choice to have a chance to sneak through.

</details>
