---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-05-02
episode: 109
guest: Chaz Schmidt
guest_topic: "[KlimaDAO](https://www.klimadao.finance/), RWAs driving real-world impact"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/jHybQgbgyE
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/@evmavericks/streams
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kctwdl/comment/mq5i9d2/)

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $1833.67

[u/SelfmadeMillionaire](https://reddit.com/u/SelfmadeMillionaire)

> 0.01895

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kb9g7x/daily_general_discussion_april_30_2025/mpuznx4/)

*Roadmap relevant,*

*Consequence self-evident,*

*Raising sentiment.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/spupul6 discusses Nethermind's groundbreaking testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k6l2h3/daily_general_discussion_april_24_2025/mor09ud/)

I did not see it posted yesterday, but Netherminds Surge rollup is live on testnet [Twitter link](https://x.com/NethermindEth/status/1915037946430079184).

-A based rollup  
- with gigagas capacity and  
- (This warms my heart the most) Stage 2 by launch.  
- Fully open source for maximum transparency  
- Uses ETH for gas, no native token, and contributes to the burn with 100% of base fees

This is what I like to see.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard explains why L2s on Bitcoin won't be all that consequential</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k6l2h3/daily_general_discussion_april_24_2025/mot58yp/)

**Assuming** OP_CAT goes through and all you are doing is validating zksnarks on chain and can enforce validator slashing **on chain**:

1) You reduce Bitcoin to a data availability layer and its bandwidth is actually pathetic compared to everything else.

2) You are still hashing and consuming a ton of extra power which has to be paid for somehow. They need like $50k a block in fees because they are 99.5% less power efficient than Ethereum. Who wants to pay that much more for a less efficient system. What do they get for the extra cost?

3) At best you create the same liquidity fragmentation problems Ethereum has today but with no solution. There's no preconfs on Bitcoin. There's no account abstraction. You still have 15 minute block times.

4) The only thing I can identify that you get for these factors is access to *native* Bitcoin. This means actually trustless Bitcoin instead of the multisig bridges we get today. But if you have OP_CAT, you can bridge native Bitcoin to another chain and have that bridge actually be trustless. In which case... use the better network with the trustless Bitcoin. Why do you need the Bitcoin network then? Sunset the whole thing and use a better tech stack.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nikola_j shares the new DeFi saver dashboard</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k7dtph/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2025/moywvc2/)

Maybe useful for defi users - we just released a dashboard for comparing various positions in different protocols at DeFi Saver.

It's at [https://app.defisaver.com/discover](https://app.defisaver.com/discover) and you don't need to connect wallet to compare rates and LTVs across Aave, Compound, Fluid, Morpho, Maker, Spark and CurveUSD. Covers all these protocols across Eth mainnet, Arbitrum, Base & Optimism.

We'll be looking to expand it with more options like entering your actually wanted position so you get estimated net APYs, too, for example.

Would be super interested in any feedback and requests for extra additions here, so please shoot away if you've got anything🙏

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth10kIsFUD explains Bitcoin's security budget problem while u/edmundedgar explains why Ethereum doesn't want Bitcoin's digital gold-like properties</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k7dtph/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2025/mp4yfiq/)

[u/](https://reddit.com/u/eth10kIsFUD):

The entirety of bitcoins security is derived from the money paid to miners. The original idea in the white paper was that fees would eventually take over to pay for security when issuance runs out. 

This has not happened.

15 years on and issuance still pays for 99% of security. This is after 4 halvings.

“But what if BTC goes up a lot? Doesn’t that mean that we can still pay for security even with less BTC paid to miners?”

No.

Security needs to be relative to what is being secured. Cost of attack relative to potential gain needs to be in proportion, this is why “% paid” is all that matter. Bitcoin halving cuts relative security in half.

Bitcoin is fine until 2028. Even then it will likely stay secure. 2032 is much less certain.

There is currently no solution.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k7dtph/daily_general_discussion_april_25_2025/moxx3ok/)

[u/edmundedgar](https://reddit.com/u/edmundedgar):

The "digital gold" thing is based on:

* Being the first crypto currency, which is unique and can't be duplicated
* Having fixed algorithmic supply so you know exactly how much will be issued (I know gold doesn't have this, but people who are into the digital gold thing apparently care about it a lot)
* Not doing a lot of system upgrades, so people think they know what they're getting

Ethereum couldn't do the first of those three, which is probably the most important, because Bitcoin already exists.

We don't want a fixed algorithmic supply because we want to make sure we secure the network properly, which can't be guaranteed if you have fixed, decreasing issuance. So we don't want to follow Bitcoin there. Some Ethereum people try to meme "ultrasound money" (as opposed to "sound money" which is a crank economic theory that impresses goldbug types) on the basis that at any given time Ethereum will *probably* do less money printing than Bitcoin, and will likely actually have negative issuance (because we'll burn more fees than we issue in staking rewards). But the people who are into this don't seem to want *probable* negative issuance, they want to be certain what the issuance will be, so this doesn't impress them.

Not doing system upgrades conflicts with all the other problems we want to solve: We want to scale really big, we want to support L2s that can also scale really big, we want to give developers a lot of power and freedom to make new stuff, etc.

tl;dr: It's not possible, and trying to do it would make Ethereum worse.

---

Note from Hanniabu: Those things aren't needed for digital gold. Just because those are Bitcoin properties doesn't mean those are properties needed for such a title.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ReptilePotato is tracking the institutional hype around stablecoins</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k862k3/daily_general_discussion_april_26_2025/mp3tuvo/)

We have reached peak hype of institutions, banks and fintech wanting to create stablecoins. It's a 'gold rush'! Most issuance methods are undecided but if Ethereum catches all this potential, it will be massive for Ethereum. The new sec chair is working right now to create regulatory clarity, everyone is rushing to tokenization, stablecoins and rwa. The spring is getting max loaded and everything is about to explode, it will be something most cannot comprehend. 

Let's hope Ethereum catches it all. But remember this? : “There was no question that the blockchain we would start our tokenization on would be Ethereum and that’s not just a BlackRock thing. That’s the natural default answer,” BlackRock’s head of digital assets, Robbie Mitchnick, said in March.

“Clients have clearly made the choice that they really do value decentralization, credibility and security. And that is a great advantage that Ethereum continues to have.” 

Progmat, a Japanese company led by three major banks—Mizuho, Sumitomo Mitsui, and Mitsubishi UFJ is preparing to issue a yen stablecoin. 

<https://www.businesskorea.co.kr/news/articleView.html?idxno=240739>

In response to the Trump administration’s promotion of dollar stablecoins, Korean banks have decided to create a joint venture to issue a joint Korean stablecoin. The banks involved include KB Kookmin, Shinhan, Woori, NH Nonghyup, IBK Industrial, Sh Suhyup and Korea Financial Telecommunications & Clearing Institute (KFTC). 

<https://www.ledgerinsights.com/korean-banks-to-launch-joint-stablecoin-report/>

The financial services industry is on the verge of entering the crypto economy, according to Bank of America’s CEO Brian Moynihan. “It's pretty clear there's going to be a stablecoin,” Moynihan said in an interview with David Rubenstein on Tuesday.

<https://finance.yahoo.com/news/bank-america-ceo-says-stablecoins-122647572.html?guccounter=1>

The world’s biggest banks and FinTechs are scrambling to roll out their own stablecoins. It’s a sort of “gold rush” driven by the anticipation that cryptocurrencies will transform the cross-border payments market

<https://www.pymnts.com/cryptocurrency/2025/banks-and-fintechs-see-stablecoins-cross-border-payments-potential>

There are way way more articles i can post about countries getting into this but i think this comment doesn't need to be bigger than this already is, the point is clear. The stage is set, the players are getting ready, there is no stopping what's coming. I know what position im taking to prepare for this, the ticker is ETH.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll delivers an ETH FUD-buster AI update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k8x2x3/daily_general_discussion_april_27_2025/mpb1ngk/)

**ETH FUD-buster AI Update**

I have re-scraped the doots and this time for V2 of the bot I have included metadata such as the post date and username ahead of each prompt, as well as cleaned out stuff which didn't get scraped correctly the first time around such as bold text and tables.

I also reached out to Anthony Sassano who is happy to let us use the Daily Gwei as a source! I will need to transcribe the podcasts first and then find the juicy FUD busting parts since all of his full episodes would be too much data.

Next major step is to further refine the dataset by removing noise like shitposts which might be tricky ^^no, ^^not ^^me.  Then I will need to create the validation dataset which is a manual job of finding the best submissions which answer a question.

We're still a few weeks away from having the V2 dataset ready, but good progress is being made.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth explains the benefit of increasing blobs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k8x2x3/daily_general_discussion_april_27_2025/mpbx4km/)

L2s will stay at soft cap, and won't truly compete for blobs. So you double the cap, you double the fee "revenue" and fees have more space in the part for the cost curve that is decently monetized.

Some people have argued that there's no incentive for L2s to fight for all the range between soft and max cap (3 and 6 blobs). Pectra will make the caps 6 and 9 effectively focusing on the range that matters, but there are already proposals to put base fees and better blob cost curves that would improve this further.

Until those come, anything that increases blob space is a good investment in the future of the ecosystem.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog covers the ditching of EOF and ossification of the EVM</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k9okmq/daily_general_discussion_april_28_2025/mpiqe35/)

In todays All Core Devs Testing call (ACDT) EOF got taken out from the Fusaka upgrade. As expected the call got quite spicy and after a long discussion there was no agreement on a possible scope for EOF, so it was decided that it cannot be part of Fusaka. 

No matter where you stand on the surprisingly heated debate in the last few months, EOF is a pretty clear failure of the Ethereum governance process. For years EOF has been shifted from one hard fork for to the next one. There was always something more important to focus on, but it was never outright shot down. That is why people continued to work on it, did research and implemented it. In the last 1.5 years it was agreed on several occasions that it will be part of the next upgrade, which most core devs agreed with, or in other words, only a minority disagreed. The debate heated up again in the last few weeks and after a Reth core dev also voiced its opposition it became obvious there is not enough agreement to even have a rough consensus on what to do with it. All in all this is a lot of wasted resources spent on working on EOF over the years. This probably also shows that the EVM itself has ossified to a large degree, as it now looks pretty impossible to be able to upgrade it in at least the foreseeable future (\~5 years). An earlier attempt to change the EVM with ewasm was also not implemented. We will see if the EVM will get updated in the possible transition to snarkify Ethereum or if the EVM really has ossified, which means the engineers will need to find solutions to snarkify the current EVM. We will see.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Whovillage starts a discussion about long term decentralisation in block building</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kagxs7/daily_general_discussion_april_29_2025/mppf69v/)

Does anyone else find it alarming that now researchers want to scale the base layer 1000x? The answer in Dankrad's eyes is stateless validators and beefy builders. He says CR will be solved by FOCIL and handwaves away all other benefits that the current more accessible system has.   
  
I understand the fact that Ethereum building is already mega centralized right now. But this is fine because when all builders get shut down we can build locally. But in his design there is no fallback to local building possible. So that when all builders (of which there inevitably will be very few) are shut down or attacked, Ethereum may go down.

For me this design is a step too far and goes against the core values of Ethereum. Am I understanding something wrong or is everyone just ok with this verion of Ethereum's future?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/cironoric discusses the Ethereum nation and its L2 states</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kb9g7x/daily_general_discussion_april_30_2025/mpuunzq/)

Ethereum Nation. L2 States.

Eth's marketplace of L2s is inventive in a way that L1 will never be - at any L1 scale.

An example of how we have sometimes misinterpreted or disregarded the reality of the L2 marketplace being inventive - and naturally producing deep differentiation - lies in Martin's devcon talk last November, where he pitched native rollups.

(Martin's a legend and Gnosis's products are apex, I use them heavily - respectfully using his talk as an example here)

In his talk, Martin proposed \~64 identical native rollups built into the L1 protocol at the EIP level.

Given app devs having the choice of 64 different rollups, Martin suggested to "just use the least congested one".

Yet, using a specific rollup primarily because it's the least congested is not representative of how this ecosystem of 64 rollups would actually evolve.

You don't move to a new city because it's the least congested - maybe in the Wild West, but not after the very early days. You move there for a complex set of reasons - job, relationships, culture, costs, etc.

If Martin's proposal had been adopted, what started as 64 identical empty rollups would quickly evolve into a market-based differentiation between these rollups, based on accumulated state.

Rollup #37 of 64 might become known as the prediction market rollup - for no other reason than because a prediction market happened to deploy there, and then another did so they could compose/be nearby, and soon what started as an uncongested homogenous rollup becomes a congested differentiated prediction market suburb.

Rollup #18 might accidentally become a lending powerhouse. While popular lending protocols initially deployed to all 64 native rollups, some whales happened to decide - for no particular reason - to all lend simultaneously on rollup #18, and this ended up creating a lending liquidity network effect. Modern lending venues, like fluid, bundle dexes into the venue, and so rollup #18 becomes a trading powerhouse, too. #18 started as no different than any of the other 64 and then became unique due to emergent path dependence.

And so it goes with an infinite variety of specializations, app-level network effects, and economies of scale.

This kind of emergent differentiation is true with 64 vanilla rollups built into the protocol, and it's 1000x more true with eth's marketplace L2s that can differentiate not just in accumulated state but in lots of other even more meaningful ways, such as branding, partnerships, integrations, level of decentralization, tech customizations, etc.

The superpower of Ethereum's marketplace of L2s is that it's inventive.

The L1 can't replace the marketplace of L2s - regardless of how scalable the L1 gets.

Native rollups can't replace the marketplace of L2s - regardless of how technically scalable or perfectly secure native rollups may be.

This is because L2s are inventive, and L2s offer the control and customization levers that serious builders want.

Ethereum Nation. L2 States.

<https://x.com/ryanberckmans/status/1917256746608820453>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Bonus Bounty</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k8x2x3/daily_general_discussion_april_27_2025/mpa4u3a/)

A bit of action on the bounty to put up posters in financial centres saying "Ethereum is the only credibly neutral global financial platform". This was kind of a shower thought coming out of some conversation here then I posted it on Warpcast and then some decentralized tooling started cranking into life:
<https://poidh.xyz/arbitrum/bounty/90>

</details>
