---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-03-07
episode: 102
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j5hofm/comment/mgib57b/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/@evmavericks/streams
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j5hofm/comment/mgh1p0f/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/howareyou_2_day](https://reddit.com/u/howareyou_2_day)

> $2183.01

[u/Kallukoras](https://reddit.com/u/Kallukoras)

> 0.0274

[u/usesbinkvideo](https://reddit.com/u/usesbinkvideo)

> 3,600,715 Ethereans subscribed (+2,626)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3537a/comment/mg2f64p/)

*New privacy pools,*

*More emancipation tools,*

*The cypherpunk rules.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Stats with u/Dreth</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j5hofm/comment/mgi07s5/)

Hi frens, hope you're having a great friday and have had a great week!

Missed stats yesterday, was busy all day and completely forgot about it. Rare that I spend a day without reading this daily!

Anyway, hope you all are great! here's today's and yesterday's stats:


# ETH stats

UTC Timestamp: **2025-03-07T12:29:00Z**

## Price and supply

| Metric                          | Value       |
|:--------------------------------|:------------|
| Current ETH price               | 2,189       |
| 24h change (%)                  | -4.17       |
| Average ETH price over 1 day    | 2,198       |
| Average ETH price over 7 days   | 2,229       |
| Average ETH price over 30 days  | 2,551       |
| Supply at merge                 | 120,521,140 |
| Current supply                  | 120,592,800 |
| Supply differential since merge | 71,659      |
| Total inflation since merge (%) | 0.06        |

## ETF Flow (in millions of USD)

### Summary

| Metric                                  |   Value |
|:----------------------------------------|--------:|
| Total ETF Flow                          |  2751.6 |
| Total ETF Flow over the last 3 days     |   -58.7 |
| Total ETF Flow on the last recorded day |   -10   |

### ETF Flow (last 3 days)

| Entity    |   2025-03-04 |   2025-03-05 |   2025-03-06 |   Total |
|:----------|-------------:|-------------:|-------------:|--------:|
| Blackrock |        -26.3 |          0   |          -10 |   -36.3 |
| Fidelity  |         21.7 |          0   |            0 |    21.7 |
| Grayscale |         10.7 |        -63.3 |            0 |   -52.6 |
| Grayscale |          8.5 |          0   |            0 |     8.5 |

#### Sources

- [ultrasound.money](https://ultrasound.money)
- [farside.co.uk](https://farside.co.uk/eth)
- [farside.co.uk ETH ETF full historical tables](https://farside.co.uk/ethereum-etf-flow-all-data/)
- [coinglass.com](https://coinglass.com/)

##### [Previous post](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3xddk/daily_general_discussion_march_05_2025/mg4y18k/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Ethical-trade</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j2cxi7/daily_general_discussion_march_03_2025/mfs5ff8/)

We're invested in ether not because it's easy,

But because we thought it would be easy.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll has always been playing the long game</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j0tpka/daily_general_discussion_march_01_2025/mfimo60/)

Lots of low effort brigaded FUD out there today. But none of it has any real teeth. Even an AI could counter the low quality FUD (foreshadowing). All of the negativity is due to falling price and not failing fundamentals. Sure, the concerns about the price action is for good reason. But this isn't the first time we as a community have been through tough times. 2018 was brutal and it wasn't until late 2020 until ETH received anything close to a fair valuation. It was 3 years of absurdly low valuations. Except, this time around the fundamentals are better than ever. That my friends is an opportunity and it is one I have been fortunate enough to take advantage of before.

Ethereum is excelling at the undercutting competitors strategy which Amazon used for 20 whole years until it cornered the vast majority of the market and it could raise prices to turn a significant profit. This is what ETH is doing with blobs. Mass scaling for L2s which is so cheap that alt DA and alt L1s stand no chance. Solana only managed to get mercenary style chain usage in the form of the memecoin casino. Meanwhile we have [institution after institution lining up to use Ethereum.](https://ethereumadoption.com/)

But I'm not going to sugar coat it. Price wise, it's not looking good. Macro is looking like a steaming pile of dogshit. But we're not here for a pump and dump. We never were. Ethereum has always been a long term play. As the world continues to head towards a major crisis, us long term investors know that new institutions always come out of the other side of major crises. After WW2 it was Bretton Woods and the US dollar and US hegemony and protection of its allies to prevent nuclear proliferation. This time around it will be a multi-polar world order and a permissionless, credibly neutral and decentralised base layer for all counterparties to transact on digitally without the need for trusted parties. What other than Ethereum fits this description? Go on, I'll wait...

So as the blood continues to rain down on the streets, I'll be here, continuing to stake. Financially stress free with enough cash to weather a multi-year bear or a black swan rainy day and the vast, vast majority of my assets in ETH. Any spare income I will be more than happy to buy up cheap ETH. I'm not expecting a return any time soon, but I also wouldn't rule it out. At the end of the day it doesn't matter. ETH the asset is very clearly a solid long term play, so what happens between here and 20XX doesn't matter aside from how it allows me to further increase my stack.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 followed Pectra Devnet 7</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j2cxi7/daily_general_discussion_march_03_2025/mfrpp1y/)

`pectra-devnet-7` just went through the Pectra network upgrade. This devnet was quickly spun up last week by the EF DevOps team in response to the Holesky testnet upgrade not going too smoothly. The devnet features over 500 machines running over 1M validators and is publicly accessible for anyone to try out. Even the validator set is permissionless and anyone can join!

You can follow the progress of the upgrade on [this explorer](https://dora.pectra-devnet-7.ethpandaops.io/epochs) (the fork epoch is 1024). At the time of writing the first post-Pectra epoch is still ongoing so I'll report back once it is clear whether or not the upgrade went successfully.

Edit: First post-upgrade epoch (1024) justified right away with high participation!

Edit: The network has finalized the upgrade epoch and continues finalizing with the same participation rate as before the upgrade, everything looks great.

The next scheduled Pectra upgrade is on Wednesday on the Sepolia testnet (epoch 222,464). Gnosis Chain's testnet, Chiado, is scheduled to go through the upgrade this Thursday (epoch 948,224).

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog summarises the Pectra hardfork on the Sepolia testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3xddk/daily_general_discussion_march_05_2025/mg43ltn/)

The Sepolia testnet just had its Pectra upgrade. It looks like all went fine. There are no missed blocks. Attestation are coming in normally and the chain finalized within 2 epochs.

Sepolia is a permissioned POS network, meaning only selected entities can run validators on it. The goal of the sepolia testnet is to have a stable environment for projects testing their smart contracts and rollups on it. Looks like they can now use 6 blobs per block and also wallets can start with testing their account abstraction integration (EIP-7702).

My own sepolia nodes did not have an issue with it, even my RISC-V board managed to do it. The only hiccup I have seen is that the beaconcha.in sepolia site is stuck. Maybe their node went down.

Addendum: As of 9:40 AM UTC all blocks seem to be full of transactions again. There is no chain split or anything severe. In my current understanding, the issue seems to be that some EL clients naively assumed all logs emitted from the deposit contract on sepolia are deposit logs. Unfortunately the sepolia contract has other logs emitted as well, so execution clients need to be more specific to not trigger the deposit logic every time the deposit contract emits something. Updated code is already in some master branches of some clients (geth), so might be properly fixed soon. Tomorrow there is also the Chiado testnet (from gnosis chain) upgrade. They also have a custom deposit contract which uses ERC-20 tokens. Lets see if they manage to fix the relevant clients until then.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BananaBoatSpirit explains how they feel about their ETH investment</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j2cxi7/daily_general_discussion_march_03_2025/mfv1jym/)

Earlier than Sep 2017. Sold a bunch in 2021. Comfy in spot with a few longs at $2,600.

Price action during this cycle has been terribly disheartening. ETH seems to be suffering from a severe case of middle child syndrome.

I'm still bullish over the next year or so and also bullish long term (5+ years). Network upgrades have gone really well. The increasing amount of stablecoins on chain is a great sign and the current admin (despite questionable/fraudulent shenanigans) is shaping up to be majorly favorable and permissive toward builders in the industry. We'll just have to wait and see what gets launched in these upcoming years now that the SEC isn't spamming corrupt enforcement judgments at every crypto exchange or other company involved in digital assets.

As to headwinds and disappointments: Macro environment sucks. Rates are still high, inflation still high-ish, and it's not clear when and to what extent we'll get another liquidity cycle.

Lack of solutions for privacy options sucks. Stagnation in DeFi since 2020/2021 sucks. NFT collapse and lack of use cases sucks. Lack of real world non-crypto utility sucks. Onboarding, outreach, and effective advocacy has sucked. Memecoin meta crime szn really sucked (but happy it was on Solana and not Ethereum). Layer 2 fragmentation sucks. Eigen sucked.

But.. ETF's are great and so is ETH's status as a commodity. I wouldn't feel comfortable keeping significant assets on any other chain. I don't trust Bitcoin long-term for a variety of reasons. Even  as #2, every year & each cycle we survive with increasing TVL's is another year added to the Lindy effect.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ev1501 discusses a must watch video</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3537a/daily_general_discussion_march_04_2025/mfyotoj/)

If you havent watched this Danny Ryan clip yet and you are heavily invested in Ethereum i highly recommend you watch it from start to end. <https://x.com/sassal0x/status/1896347959664800105> It will help you cut away all the doom and gloom and medium term price action. In light of all the leadership changes at the EF and now with Danny helping run Etherealize I am very optimistic for Ethereums future. He understands the gap to fill and making sure we are in the room with countries, governments, companies, institutions. First off we have to stop comparing ETH to BTC and worrying about the ratio. The real focus needs to be on the smart contract space and its competitors. This is where the fight is and where ETH needs to win. The good news is that Ethereum is the right platform for real world assets to be tokenized there. It is modular which will allow it to scale as needed and no Solana will not be the future for this. Monolithic chains are not the answer. It took a while but the Ethereum community’s focus is finally on the right things. We all need to stay focused as well.  I am at peace now with the current price action, whether it takes us to $1xxx or not.  I am in it for the long haul and am not fucking going anywhere.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog brings us an update to the MegaETH testnet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3537a/daily_general_discussion_march_04_2025/mg0eicm/)

An update to the MegaETH testnet.

They will start it this week. Then they have a few days for projects to deploy on the testnet and get everything ready. On the 10th of March they will open the testnet to the users.

What is quite interesting is that the plan to have 15ms block times and 1.68 ~~MGas/s~~ GGas/s throughput. This is about 1000 times faster than Ethereum mainnet or 17k tps (!!!). This is pretty wild to be honest. I personally did not expect them to push the numbers that high. I would have been happy with 100ms block times and about 1k-2k tps. As it is a testnet I really hope they will stresstest their setup and really reach these numbers. I want to see how long they can sustain these high numbers.

For those that do not know, MegaETH is an L2 that embraces the modular roadmap and pushes the execution side of things to the maximum by splitting the work of running the chain into a handful of tasks, each of which a dedicated actor does. This leads to such a high throughput. Other L2s do similar things like Eclipse, which uses the SVM and there is another one, I think, which eludes me at the moment.

They also have forced inclusion from the L1. So, if somehow the sequencer goes down, or for some reason or tries to censor you, you can force a transaction to be included from Ethereum L1 into MegaETH. L2s use an alternative data availability service to store the transaction data. MegaETH uses EigenDA. This means they will not pay blob Fees, but as they are a zk based L2 they will pay quite a bit for executing zk proofs on mainnet. We will see how much these cost and how often they do them.

For me, MegaETH is interesting because it is on the extreme end of what the modular (or rollup centric) roadmap enables. This end is the one with less security from the L1, but lower prices and maximum throughput. The other end of the spectrum is occupied by based and soon native rollups, like Taiko, which couple much stronger to the Ethereum mainnet and inherit more of its security. The rollups we know best like Arbitrum, Optimism Mainnet and Base are somewhere between these two extremes.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu breaks news of a company adopting ETH as their reserve asset of choice</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3xddk/daily_general_discussion_march_05_2025/mg76xgb/)

[https://x.com/hanni\_abu/status/1897367422203773372](https://x.com/hanni_abu/status/1897367422203773372)

>BioNexus Gene Lab adopts Ethereum for treasury strategy
>
>[https://www.investing.com/news/company-news/bionexus-gene-lab-adopts-ethereum-for-treasury-strategy-93CH-3909695](https://www.investing.com/news/company-news/bionexus-gene-lab-adopts-ethereum-for-treasury-strategy-93CH-3909695)
>
>The company also released an Ethereum Strategy Whitepaper, highlighting the asset’s institutional reliability, staking rewards, financial dominance, and scalability.
>
>[https://www.bionexusgenelab.com/ethstrategy](https://www.bionexusgenelab.com/ethstrategy)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/GregFoley explains how the Bybit hack could have been avoided</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3xddk/daily_general_discussion_march_05_2025/mg56prl/)

[GridPlus Hardware Wallets Could Have Helped Prevent the $1.5B Bybit Crypto Hack. Here’s How.](https://gridplus.io/blogs/blog/how-the-gridplus-lattice1-could-have-helped-prevent-the-1-5b-bybit-crypto-hack)

"The Lattice1 and Clear Signing addressed smart contract blind signing in hardware for the first time ever. This last line of defense requires users to actively look and compare the two requests. If they do not match, it indicates something is wrong and that the signing request should not be approved."

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 discusses some Arbitrum DAO drama</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j3xddk/daily_general_discussion_march_05_2025/mg4fi12/)

Damn, another testnet-specific bug on Sepolia. Hopefully this one will be easier to resolve than the one on Holesky.

___

If you're looking for a small distraction from the politics, testnet happenings and price action, I have one for you today (it is still politics though quite different).

Arbitrum, the creator of the largest L2 on Ethereum by TVL (Arbitrum One), has recently established a Growth Management Committee (GMC). This committee is tasked with investing the Arbitrum DAO's ETH holdings into "ETH-backed strategies".

There's some discontent on their governance forum after the GMC announced its preferred choices almost 2 weeks ago. The discontent stems from multiple things, I included my opinion on each of them and would be interested to hear yours:

1) It was proposed to cut the governance vote short (ending <7 days after the forum post). In the end the snapshot vote has not been posted at all, at least not yet. (I'm personally not sure about this one, this may have just been an honest mistake because the post was made later than they expected)

2) The GMC proposed to stake 2/3 of the amount with Lido even though proposals from Rocket Pool, StakeWise, NodeSet and other more decentralized options were also received. (On this one I completely agree with the user that is blasting the choice of Lido on the forums, they're making a good case against it. Also, if someone like Arbitrum DAO goes with Lido here, why should we expect others to do any better?)

3) the community expected something called the Growth Management Committee to support growth on Arbitrum in a more significant way by e.g. using Arbitrum-native projects (agree on this one too, Arbitrum-native strategies may be more risky but they deserved at least a small allocation)

Thoughts? Do we have any Arbitrum DAO delegates around here that would want to share their opinion?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard uses a good metaphor to explain the Bitcoin security problem</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j4prxx/daily_general_discussion_march_06_2025/mgdpj9q/)

I had a conversation about this at EthDenver with about 6 people at a table. They were all shocked by this simple economic fact. I tend to use the analogy of a gold vault instead of Bitcoin to shake people out of their usual frame of mind.

We have a gold vault that is paid for by a nearby gold mine and people who enter the vault to access their holdings. Now obviously there is a desired ratio of gold holdings to security guards. If this gets too out of balance some thieves are going to rob the gold vault. No gold mine is infinite though so over time the gold being mined depletes so there is less available from there to pay the security guards. As the gold mine revenue depletes, the gold vault can't afford as many security guards unless the traffic into the vault increases to offset this depletion rate. The only alternative is for gold to leave the vault so there's less value stored in it for thieves.

It's obvious with such a system the budget for the security guards should scale with the amount of gold stored in the vault not with the foot traffic of people going to the vault but even if you set that aside, coupling the security with the nearby gold mine is clearly an unsustainable solution. Having some schedule that says every 4 years I'm going to halve the number of security guards regardless of the gold stored in the vault is degenerately risky and a poor tokenomic design. Doubling the price of gold doesn't help this situation. The only solutions in the long term are to either continuously increase the foot traffic bill as much as is needed to pay enough security guards until people get pissed enough that they take their gold to a different vault with a better security model which winds down the shitty vault to 0 holdings over time, change the billing structure to be based on holdings instead of foot traffic which amounts to a wealth tax, or find an infinite gold mine so there is a sustainable subsidized security budget.

The gold in the vault is the market cap of BTC here. Either blockspace fees need to increase to offset any inflation decrease, a chain wide wealth tax on BTC holdings needs to siphon funds for miners, they need to remove the 21M hard cap and use inflation as an alternative wealth tax, or the BTC market cap needs to fall in line with the security budget. Most likely in my opinion: they will ignore this until thieves rob the vault which will force the BTC price down significantly. By doing nothing they force the latter option.

</details>
