---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-11-07
episode: 131
guest: Charles Allen
guest_topic: "[BTCS](https://www.btcs.com/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/EzV4HrM7iL
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1opr5qo/comment/nndjmyn/)

[u/DayTraderBiH](https://reddit.com/u/DayTraderBiH)

> Ethereum!

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> $3,369

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.03276


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oov5id/comment/nnbrvic/)

*Long for piñata,*

*One month until Fusaka,*

*Upgrade armada.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Stobie</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oov5id/comment/nnbe6iy/)

The recent bunni dex exploit and balancer exploit were \~the same error, allow pushing system into an extreme state and then capitalise on now high impact rounding error. From timing seems likely either attackers were same group, or bunni gave balancer attacker an idea. Same thing happened with the DAO exploit, Nikolai saved maker from reentrancy, people saw the mechanism and then looked for other places vulnerable to it. Somehow we all overlooked this class of bugs and the weakness survived auditors for years, but now attackers will be looking for it everywhere. Feels like chance of another one is high for now like when there were the wave of flash loan and oracle manipulation exploits.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rachelatseeds explains how Seeds is helping crypto solve one of its original proclaimed solutions and repairing its image, one fundraiser at a time</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1om8u38/daily_general_discussion_november_02_2025/nmsxty9/)

**Since SNAP expired yesterday, the** [**Seeds Blockchain Mutual Aid Project is raising funds to help Americans struggling with basic food costs.**](https://www.seedsgives.com/help-our-friends)

ETH contributions to help out our friends and neighbors who are [having trouble buying food](https://www.seedsgives.com/help-our-friends) are super appreciated. 💗

I'm the founder of Seeds. Here's a [pic](https://www.seedsgives.com/im-urachelatseeds) of me with this Reddit handle. Here's a link to the time [Seeds competed in Techcrunch Disrupt Battlefield](https://techcrunch.com/2016/12/05/seeds-helps-developers-make-more-money-through-in-app-social-good-purchases/) in 2016 (we've iterated a bunch since then, and introduced blockchain tools to help people in need in 2017) so you know I'm real and so is Seeds.

**Seeds has used blockchain tools to help people in need in 30 countries now.** You can see some past beneficiaries [here](https://www.seedsgives.com/gift-recipients), including school kids in Haiti and South Sudan.

Here's [a video interview I did with a former child soldier in South Sudan who got help through Seeds,](https://youtu.be/aMy8N4vTUOM) started a hygiene stall business, and then fully took the initiative to teach a bunch of people in his community how to benefit from Seeds too - **in my view, an example of one of the original dreams of blockchain.**

**We get shit on a lot even as we're working to help because there are so many bad actors in crypto.  So many people who love helping others hear the word 'blockchain' and immediate think 'BAD.'** It's demoralizing and has really hurt our reach.

We need the folks who truly care about the ideals decentralization promised us - like global financial inclusion - to support the work Seeds does to help people in need.  This is the only crypto sub (since r/ethertrader's 'daily' moved here) where I really see that spirit.

As Seeds is better known, it can also help later crypto adopters start to recognize that blockchain tools truly can be used for good - to reform "crypto's" poor mainstream reputation.

If the above resonates, we're super grateful for any [support](https://www.seedsgives.com/help-our-friends) you can offer folks who are struggling rn with food costs.

You're also very welcome touse Seeds to ask for help when you need it yourself!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog does a post-mortem on the recent blob fee spike</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1om8u38/daily_general_discussion_november_02_2025/nmokr3c/)

This is in response to a post yesterday by u/physalisx: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1olfl2l/daily_general_discussion_november_01_2025/nmlmgvk/. He was asking about a massive spike in blob gas fees last Thursday. I looked into what probably happened. My response got a bit longer than I first intended and maybe some other people are interested in it as well, so I post it in todays daily.

Thanks, I was not aware there was such a massive blob gas fee spike on Thursday afternoon (UTC time). Blobs have a similar pricing mechanics like normal transactions on Ethereum. There is currently a target of 6 blobs per block. If more blobs are posted, the price increases until the rollups stop publishing more than 6 blobs per block and then the blob price goes down again. I looked at the various data from the time of the spike and here is what I think happened. First of all I am not sure that the ultrasound money data is accurate. There definitely was a price increase, but I am not sure it was that huge at that time. I think one reason for my confusion is that some sources state blob gas prices as price per byte of blob space (Etherscan) ~~and other sources state the blob gas prices as price per blob (Ultrasound money)~~ (EDIT: see discussion below. Looks like ultrasound.money just reports gas fees wrongly) . 1 Blob has 128 kiB or 131072 byte ~~, so depending on where you look you can see massive numbers~~ (EDIT: same reason as above. Ultrasound.money is most probably wrong in their numbers). Even though the numbers seem very high, the actual price in dollar terms paid is not that much. I found prices of $0.37 paid for the blob fee alone around that time. This is still less than the price paid for publishing the paid blob on chain, which was around $3.50 around that time.

Now lets look at the spike itself. At the moment we are on average close to the 6 blobs target (5-6.2 blobs on average). It only needs a small increase in blob demand to go over the target and prices start increasing exponentially. On Thursday we had a very volatile time in the market with the ETH price went down about $300 within a few hours. It then partially recovered afterwards. This volatility increases DEFI activity also on rollups which then lead to increased blob demand. According to Hildobby's Dune dashboard there also seems to have been an increased blob demand by a relatively unknown rollup called 'Shape' around the same time. Shape was the second largest blob user for several hours. No idea why Shape had such a demand increase, because I do not see any activity increase on their L2Beat page. Maybe it was just an algorithm of theirs going haywire. I would guess these two factors pushed the blob prices upwards over an extended period which means the blob pricing algorithm went exponentially higher with every block.

In the coming months I do not expect to see such spikes for some time at least. The upcoming Fusaka upgrade on December 3rd will increase the blob target/limit from the current 6/9 to 10/15 and then 14/21 within a few weeks. That more then doubles the blob space. It will take some time to fill that up. And currently core devs are already discussing going to 64/72 within a few months. That would increase the blob space by more than a factor of 10 from today. More than enough space to absorb the spikes. To make sure blobs are not handed out for free, Fusaka introduces EIP-7918 which sets a dynamic minimal price for blobs. The minimum will still be low (around a fraction of a cent I guess), but far away from 1 wei (~ $0.0000000004) which they would be without EIP-7918.  

Sources:

Ultrasound money blob gas spike: <https://ultrasound.money/>

Highest blob carrying transaction I found during that time. I am sure there are slightly higher ones: 
<https://etherscan.io/tx/0x8e2f41f6b49a6c0069a13db05db96b1ca6774d702d974726c6d2a286f011c102>

Hildobby's Blob dashboard: <https://dune.com/hildobby/blobs>

Discussion about EIP-7918 with some charts: <https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-7918-blob-base-fee-bounded-by-execution-cost/23271/42>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Twelvemeatballs continues the Buenos Aires stablecoin spending challenge</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1om8u38/daily_general_discussion_november_02_2025/nmpz9wg/)

I got a lucky break. 

An event appeared on Twitter for Stablecoin Ice Cream, a challenge by Ari  Eiberman to meet at Crecimiento to go to the best heladería in Buenos Aires. "Let's buy some ice cream using ONLY stablecoins" immediately had my attention. Ari didn't really think anyone would come. In the end, eighteen of us showed up and he was regretting not having warned the venue that we were coming.   

The server was a bit overwhelmed with us but did his best. Apparently one person convinced him to make a Settle wallet before the owner jumped in and said only pesos. I tried to pay with Peanut (failed, other people got it to work though) and ended up using my Gnosis Pay card instead. The guy behind me just shrugged and paid with cash.   

Ari: 

> 50% of participants who are actually working in 9-5 jobs in web3 today couldn't pay with stablecoin on-chain.   

So, it's not just me who is struggling to make this work. Argentine adoption is about HODLing stablecoins, not using Web3. People spend using a Binance debit card or similar, trading their trust in tradfi banks for trust in a centralised exchange.  

Methods tested: Peanut, Gnosis Pay, Ready (Starknet), Yodl and Redot.  

Yodl currently offers services in Brazil, Philippines and Vietnam, which don't require KYC. However, for Argentina, they need to KYC their customers, so the only person who could use their app at the ice cream place was Yodl staff. He got a message that it was sorted while we were still there and told me that I should be able to start using the app next week.   

Someone using Peanut won the award for the best fx rate and then realised that Peanut and Yodl use the same exchange rate, so the only reason he won was the volatility over the 30 minutes that it took us to place our orders -- which was, of course, the point.   

I won an award of 25 $BOND for having the third worst fx rate! The biggest reward, 1000% cash back award for using Wallet Connect, went unclaimed. No one could work out a way to do it.  

Overall, the event was a personal success for me. I received 25 $BOND, of course.  I got wind of two more apps to test for payment options, Yodl and Settle. Another app, Luca, sounds interesting: it's aimed at helping the mainstream use stablecoins for savings and gain defi yield without needing to understand Web3.    

When I mentioned trying (and failing) to convert stablecoins to fiat, someone said that for P2P, you need a friend with a friend. "That's how it works in Buenos Aires."   

"I see," I said, and then grinned hopefully. "So, do you have a friend?"  

"I do."   

Watch this space.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ethdaily fills us in on the Balancer exploit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1on460t/daily_general_discussion_november_03_2025/nmyvxgu/)

1/2 Gm frENS, this is my first time here. I do my best to curate a roundup of ETH news every weekday. I was [invited](https://x.com/ProDJKC/status/1984262812835749983) to Reddit by JT Nichol.

November 3, 2025:

**Balancer V2 Suffers $110m Exploit**  
Balancer, a pioneering AMM and originator of the 80/20 weighted pool design, [suffered](https://x.com/Balancer/status/1985390307245244573) a smart contract exploit on November 3, 2025, at 7:48 AM UTC, resulting in over [$110 million](https://x.com/PeckShieldAlert/status/1985281156259201044) in assets drained from its V2 Composable Stable Pools and Balancer V2 forks. The hack impacted multiple chains, including Ethereum, Arbitrum, Base, Optimism, Polygon, Sonic, and Berachain. The majority of stolen assets consist of WETH and liquid staking tokens (LSTs) like wstETH, osETH, and rETH. Launched in 2021, Balancer V2 introduced a singleton vault for enhanced capital efficiency. The composable design exaggerated the exploit across pools and chains. Balancer V2 underwent multiple audits by OpenZeppelin, Trail of Bits, and Certora. Balancer V3, deployed in December 2024, and non-composable V2 pools remain unaffected. Balancer V2 users should immediately withdraw funds and revoke token approvals.

**Balancer V2 Exploit Response Efforts** 
The Balancer V2 exploit [triggered](https://x.com/hosseeb/status/1985394967712510295) various responses across affected chains and protocols to mitigate impact and freeze stolen funds. Balancer immediately paused all pausable V2 Composable Stable Pools and entered recovery mode, isolating the issue to legacy V2 infrastructure. Berachain coordinated validators for an emergency hard fork, blacklisted attacker addresses, and recovered assets from compromised pools. Sonic [activated](https://x.com/SetteeCh/status/1985323623784054883) a new onchain account freeze mechanism to lock the attacker’s wallet without a hard fork, pausing affected pools. Downstream protocols like Beefy and YieldFi paused V2 integrations. Security teams from PeckShield, Nansen, and BlockSec are tracing funds, with some already blacklisted on exchanges.

2/2 below

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Numerous_Ruin_4947 still has conviction but acknowledges the struggle</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1on460t/daily_general_discussion_november_03_2025/nmuei0u/)

I hate to say it, but just holding BTC would’ve been a lot less stressful - and probably healthier for many of us. Stress kills, and yeah, people will say that means you invested too much or didn’t manage risk. But realistically, holding ETH over BTC since 2021 has been the wrong move. It’s been painful watching the ratio bleed while putting in the research and conviction.

Don’t get me wrong - Bitcoin has plenty of issues ahead. The block-reward decay, the security budget, and the lack of real development are all still there. But in a twisted way, it might just get away with it. Or maybe we’ll all be twenty years older by the time we’re finally proven right that Bitcoin’s long-term model is cooked.

Bitcoin’s had an easy ride: fewer updates, fewer devs, endless marketing. Meanwhile, Ethereum has to be in the trenches constantly - upgrading, iterating, proving itself through fundamentals and real metrics. It’s exhausting watching the “harder-working” chain keep losing the narrative.

If Tom Lee or any of these market guys want to save face, they’ll have to start buying ETH on the open market and push the price up. Because like it or not, retail comes back when ETH starts moving faster than BTC. That’s what shifts the narrative.

And no - this isn’t a capitulation post. I’m still here, still holding. I just hate that it feels like being right about ETH takes more pain, more patience, and more proof than anything else in this space. Maybe that’s what separates conviction from coping… or maybe I’m just the bottom indicator. 😅

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth shares another bit of new TradFi tech for the EVM.</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1onztsp/daily_general_discussion_november_04_2025/nn20zs9/)

<https://github.com/colossus-credit/emv-validator>

A new open-source project just caught my attention: an on-chain validator for EMV (VISA, Mastercard, Europay) payment card signatures.

In short: it lets smart contracts verify real EMV chip transactions directly on-chain using RSA-2048 signatures (the same cryptography your physical card uses) and then settle funds in stablecoins through smart contracts.

If this went live, it would mean your card could trigger a payment that settles instantly on an EVM chain instead of through VISA’s centralized network. Merchants could receive instant, programmable, and transparent payments in USDC or any ERC-20 token... with fees, taxes, and royalties distributed automatically on-chain.

Have in mind that merchants *do not receive* funds when you swipe your card. These are settled in up to 7 days later (normally the day after). They also pay considerable fees.

It’s basically VISA rails, but open, auditable, and programmable... a bridge between traditional EMV hardware and decentralized settlement.

No more "swap your stables for fiat so that you can swipe a card". All merchant payment terminals are compatible and can be jail broken....

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ElEterElote is checking out of price checking and checking in on their mental health</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1onztsp/daily_general_discussion_november_04_2025/nn4fwn7/)

I don't think I've gone more than a handful of days in a row without knowing what the ETH price was since 2016. I think I'm going to take a break, call it no-check-[for the rest of]-november, hopefully longer, but before I do I had some disjointed thoughts to share. Not selling but maybe capitulating mentally.

* Using a log chart and zooming out paints a totally different picture than the sentiment reflects. Zooming out far enough on any chart and the trend is still up. Is this cope? Maybe, but the best fit line I can draw in either chart (not TA) shows a distinct upwards trend.
* This is crypto. We've been up only since April of this year and while we are down 40% from the latest high we are still up 70-80% from the May/April lows. We've seen greater run ups and downturns alike.
* Take a breath, turn off the devices, spend time with your family, take care of yourself, hit the gym, *make someone laugh*. If you have the conviction in the investment then you can avoid letting the price impact your mood by doing these things.
* Make a pact with yourself to avoid crypto media and the price for a couple weeks, maybe longer. I say this as much to this daily as I do to myself. 
* Shout-out to u/logristhebard, sounds like we're in the same boats: lost jobs, hit by Balancer, and experiencing this downturn now. I doubt someone as sharp as you will be in the doldrums too long.
* Avoid holding complex defi positions and a multitude of coins. The mental bandwidth of tracking these things isn't free and comes at a cost to other things worth your attention. Keep it simple: hold ETH and stake it. 

This sucks. I'm not trying to tell anyone it doesn't. Not trying to say the last few years of returns have been disappointing, to put it lightly. Just offering some thoughts that have helped me hold longer than I ever thought I could in case that helps anyone here do the same themselves.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains to us why the L2 perps DEX is actually really interesting</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oov5id/daily_general_discussion_november_05_2025/nn7o7e2/)

A few weeks ago Lighter, an application specific rollup started on Ethereum. Lighter is a perp DEX, similar to hyperliquid or Aster and the uncountably many perp CEXs. Perpetual exchanges are used by many to leverage (10x-100x) long or short the market. I personally do not touch them because leverage is the easiest way to get flushed out of the market, especially in highly volatile times like now. One can also use them to hedge market risks or lock in current prices for a future sale of locked tokens, but as the 10/10 crash showed one cannot fully not rely on perps to have a delta neutral portfolio. Nevertheless, Lighter is an interesting case for Ethereums modular approach as Lighter is not a full EVM rollup it can do perp dex specific transactions only. That means no overhead, no slow zk proof creation due to the many complex EVM opcodes. Just pure perp DEX action. Lighter also does not publish each individual transaction in Blobs. It just publishes the state changes since the last published blob on Ethereum. This means if someone did a thousand transactions on their account since the last published blob it still means it only needs 1 entry for the state update. That is a very efficient approach. The state diffs approach is something only zk rollups can do and many do that (ZKsync, Starknet, ...). Optimistic rollups need to publish the full transaction data for other people to prove that the current state is correct, but with zk rollups the zk proof already proves that the current state is correct, so zk rollups just have to publish the state diff since the last update. Pretty neat. At the moment Lighter seems to update its state every few minutes on Ethereum. 

In the last few weeks L2Beat evaluated the implementation of Lighter and published their findings yesterday. Lighter only has one red slice in the five risk slices. Everything else is green. It still is a stage 0 rollup though, because the L2Beat team did not yet verify that the open source code for their node is able to reconstruct the current state. If this succeeds they become a stage 1 rollup. And then it is only a question of how they set up their councils for smart contract upgrades so people have a long enough exit window in case of a malicious bridge contract upgrade. The interesting part is that even now, the escape hatch functionality is implemented. That means users can exit their funds in case of proposer failure or front end censorship. Not sure how user friendly this process is though. The front end censorship is an issue on hyperliquid as some users could deposit, but when they wanted to withdraw, their funds where frozen as their wallet was somehow connected to unwanted entities or jurisdictions. 

As lighter is a perp DEX, it naturally has a lot of transactions. Each individual bid and ask price change as each individual change in the orderbook needs a transaction. Most of these are done by bots to provide liquidity and arbitrage the different DEXs and CEXs. That is why on L2Beat the daily activity jumped from a few hundrerds TPS a few weeks ago to 4.5k TPS yesterday. Pretty amazing development in my view. It makes it a bit more difficult to follow the TPS changes of fully EVM compatible rollups though as they are all overshadowed by Lighter. Maybe L2Beat finds a neat way to show EVM compatible rollups and app specific rollups in different colours on the activity chart. 

If you want to know more about Ligher, Bankles has a good interview with the founder (see links below) and I thought it was a pretty honest evaluation how Lighter fared in the 10/10 crash. If you want to know more about L2Beat and their missionm, The Edge podcast has a great interview with Bartek, the L2Beat founder see links below. 

Sources: 

L2Beat page with all the risks regard Lighter: <https://l2beat.com/scaling/projects/lighter>

Bankless on Lighter: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9rjcEQy7Xrs>

The Edge podcast interview with Bartek the founder of L2Beat: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yyv2tTgqZ0M>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 introduces us to The Trillion Dollar Security Initiative</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1oov5id/daily_general_discussion_november_05_2025/nnawhb9/)

The EF announced the [Trillion Dollar Security Initiative](https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/05/14/trillion-dollar-security) earlier this year with one of the goals stated as "Companies, institutions or governments are comfortable storing more than 1 trillion dollars of value inside a single contract or application.".

How do we make DeFi safe enough to use if even the largest apps who do everything right (years of audits, no hacks, …) apparently can get hacked? Why would anyone put a serious amount of money into DeFi?

Does addressing this mean we'll need to come up with better ways of dealing with hacks? Some kind of semi-automated mechanism that can quickly be triggered? Because with these hacks, it often is necessary to react pretty quickly.

For example, something that DeFi protocols could opt into, and validators would respect voluntarily with a way to opt out? E.g. Balancer could signal their contracts have been hacked and flag hacker addresses, with some kind of bond to prevent abuse?

I'm mostly posting this because of the current situation on Gnosis Chain, where a hard fork has been [proposed](https://forum.gnosis.io/t/balancer-hack-update/11759) to reimburse the hack victims. It's already being discussed a bit in another thread in this daily but I'd like to create a more general discussion on the topic.

Are you a hardcore believer in not changing the rules, no matter what, even if that means we'll never know the concept of truly safe DeFi? I'm interested to know where people stand on this.

</details>
