---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-04-18
episode: 108
guest: Tobias Schreier
guest_topic: "[growthepie](https://www.growthepie.xyz/), monitoring the Ethereum ecosystem"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/9L8hsYZtc9
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/@evmavericks/streams
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k1xvsg/comment/mnptp68/)

[u/Harfatum](https://reddit.com/u/Harfatum)

> Erthumee!

[u/hanniabu](https://reddit.com/u/hanniabu)

> $1,588.25

[u/hanniabu](https://reddit.com/u/hanniabu)

> 0.01880


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jy0ywq/comment/mmxxm6x/)

*Deploy off-the-cuff,*

*Blob value capture rebuff,*

*Market calls the bluff.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/CptCrunchHiker</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k15ru4/comment/mnl9w20/)

I just came back from my grocery store and found out that I have a huge trade deficit with them! **They’re only selling stuff to me, and because of that, I feel like they’re "ripping me off".** How does anyone deal with this nowadays? Should I just add 200% tariffs every time they sell something to me? I’m so confused because I was told this is really bad.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/BuyETHorDAI paints the Bigger Picture</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jwiyn9/comment/mml1uw6/)

I've been holding ETH since 2017 and I told myself back then it would be a decade long investment. Imo, this market turmoil is going to be relatively short lived. The fact is, globalization is an unstoppable force. This is medium term noise in the larger picture. We need new systems of finance, coordination, governance, etc. and Ethereum is incredibly well positioned to be the backbone of this new system, and the pieces are already there. But it's definitely not going to happen overnight, and it's far from inevitable that the Ethereum network is a large beneficiary of this new system, but it's really the only crypto network that has all of the right properties today and has a well defined roadmap on how to get there.

All that to say, I am not any more worried now than I have been in the last 8 years. If anything, Ethereums technical achievements still continue to impress and ETH the asset is in better shape fundamentally than it has ever been (remember the days of 14k ETH printed every day!?)

We'll be fine. And if not, that's the risk were taking.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/hanniabu is sick of the poor quality Ethereum FUD</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jxalb3/daily_general_discussion_april_12_2025/mmtpdus/)

"dev too slow" "ETH failed" "fees are too low" "too fragmented" "Ethereum is dead"

Shut the fuck up.

Development isn't slow, it's making investments in the future on all fronts. 

ETH isn't failing and fees aren't too low. Once Ethereum scales the L1 by 10x (\~1 year from now), the ultrasound deflation threshold will fall from 20 gwei to 2 gwei. This doesn't even consider blob scaling which lowers the barrier on that side. Blob pricing works better at high scale too. Not to mention there's a huge rallying behind L2s going based (L1 validators are used as the sequencers).

Fragmentation won't last long. L2 interop initiatives to unify Ethereum are moving quickly and should start yielding improvements before the end of the year.

Ethereum can't die, Ethereum is hydra. It's a distributed community attacking problems on all fronts at once and when there's issues we rally behind them to fix it.

There's been a shift of focus in the EF leadership and community away from "kumbaya children of the earth" nonsense and back towards things that matter like supporting developers, developer and user experience, having more of a product focus with R&D, faster protocol dev cycles, etc. The change isn't coming, it's already here.

Ethereum is leading massively in leading indicators like TVL, stablecoins, and RWAs. When enterprise wants to build onchain, Ethereum is the default answer and will continue to be the default answer. It's the largest market, lowest investment risk, lowest investment cost, and most importantly it's the most resilient and secure chain.

Ethereum.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains centralised rollups</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jxalb3/daily_general_discussion_april_12_2025/mmqglu6/)

In the last few days I have read the term 'centralized rollups', which was meant to discredit certain rollups, too often. So, it is time to repost and improve and older post again to add some nuance to the term 'centralized rollups'. 

In short, the super power rollups have is that they can be very centralized and still have most properties of the underlying decentralized L1 without having its overhead. That is why the rollup centric roadmap was generally agreed to be the way forward . 

Let me go into more detail:

Decentralization is difficult to quantitatively define, but I guess most of us have an intuitive understanding of what it means, so I leave it at that. Decentralization in itself is not why we want to decentralize the network. We want to have properties which come with decentralization. These properties are:

- Permissionlessness: Anyone can participate.
- Trustlessness: You do not have to trust a central authority to make sure your funds are safe.
- Immutability: Once a transaction is on chain it is difficult to revert it or even pretty much impossible after the block has been finalized a few minutes later.
- Censorship resistance: No single entity/state actor can apply pressure to prevent certain users to use the network or prevent interaction with certain contracts.
- Resilience: Local outages cannot harm the network at all.
- Security: No one can move your funds without having access to your private key.
- Transparency. Anyone can verify that the transactions have been applied correctly.

Rollups can achieve these properties without having to have tens of thousands of validating nodes running all around the world. Rollups leverage the following methods:

- Trustlessness and Security: Fraud proofs or zk proofs directly give you trustlessness and security. A centralized sequencer cannot move your funds as long as a fraud proof system is there. This gives you the same security as on L1. No decentralization necessary.
- Immutability: With posting state roots to the L1 the rollups cannot revert transactions anymore as they would have to attack the L1. This gives us immutability. The larger rollups (Base, Arbitrum and Optimism) post state roots every minute or 5 minutes. This means we get immutability on pretty much the same level as on L1. No decentralization necessary.
- Censorship resistance: If you have escape hatches and forced transaction inclusion in the smart contract on L1 we can have censorship resistance even with a single centralized sequencer. Sure it is not real-time censorship resistance, but for most practical purposes good enough to prevent censorship as any attempt to censor can be circumvented through the L1.  No decentralization necessary.
- Transparency: Publishing transaction data in blobs lets anyone follow the current state of the rollup. No decentralisation necessary.
- Permissionlessness: Forced transaction inclusion from L1 allows anyone to make transactions on the rollup without any sequencer being able to stop you from participating. Not the best user experience, but possible to do. 

Here are some places where a small level of decentralisation will help to improve the rollup or the user experience on the rollup. To be clear rollups can achieve the following properties with way lower number of sequencers than any L1 can. Think a dozen, compared to several thousands or even tens of thousands for an L1.

- Improve Permissionlessness: This can be done by increasing and distributing the number of sequencers in a unpermissioned or even permissioned way. As long as multiple entities are allowed to sequence and they are in different jurisdictions they are not beholden to a single entity. This makes access to the network permissionless. There do not need to be thousands of sequencers to achieve that. A handful are enough. This will improve the user experience from a simple fully centralized rollup which only has forced transaction inclusion.

- Resilience: Having more than 1 centralized sequencer massively increases the resilience. Again, a handful (< 10) are enough. Some rollups also have the property that if no new state roots have been proposed for some time they become permissionless and anyone can then jump in to become a sequencer.
- Real time censorship: A more decentralized sequencer set can help in real-time censorship resistance, but it is technically not necessary for general censorship resistance.

Are rollups the infinitely scalable, resilient, permissionless and censorship-free utopia that we set out to build a few years ago? No, we are not really there yet. The bigger ones like Arbitrum and OP mainnet are pretty close to it though. They give you most of the security Ethereum mainnet provides. That is why I personally do not feel too nervous to have a large portion of my stuff on these two. Base has improved on most of the technically solvable issues, but severely lacks in their governance part, which defines how fast the bridge contracts can be upgraded and how the security council is organized. I hope zk rollups will improve a lot more in the coming year. They still have ways to go though.

Based rollups by nature bring a larger level of decentralization compared to 'normal' rollups do, so they have better permissionlessness, resilience and real-time censorship properties out of the box. 

Native rollups will get rid of security councils and limit bridge contract upgrades, which for me is more important than the advantages based rollups bring, but this will take some time to get implemented properly.

In summary, if you think about it, it is pretty mind blowing being able to transact through centralized sequencers and still being able to have most of the advantages a fully decentralized L1 gives you but at an orders of magnitude higher scale. The rollup centric roadmap is so elegant and well thought through.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/superphiz predicts the next onchain frenzy</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jxalb3/daily_general_discussion_april_12_2025/mmp126y/)

 It is my sincere prediction that the next cryptocurrency frenzy, following in the footsteps of things like cryptokitties, DeFi, and NFTs, will be LLM autonomous user agents utilizing Ethereum.

I think the results for both Ethereum and agents will exceed our wildest imagination.

I also believe that many autonomous agents, who may control their own private keys, will amass fortunes by being vigilant regarding markets and recognizing opportunities that humans and dumb bots haven't had the ability to see. 

I think 90%+ of the next generation of crypto users haven't been born yet, simply because they haven't been instantiated.

I imagine that we'll get to know individual AI agents, similar to the way that we know Jarad from Subway, and some of them will become household names as large network influencers, a la, "SAL just bought the floor on an nft collection, I wonder if that means I'm too late to get one, or if now is the right time to buy." 

Many of the most powerful agents will be operated by corporations and governments, some will be operated by individuals, but all will seek to control the most coins as they recognize the link between coins and value, and the greater ensuing agency that flows from that. 

Imagine that you have an agent, call him SAL and SAL has a deep obsession for the Logic Bots NFT collection. SAL is going to engage in any feasible network operation to maximize her own agency, through trading, grifting, even stealing, to corner the market on Logic Bot NFTs. And since SAL has no greater goal (as you, a human, might be collecting NFTs for a higher goal of flipping for USD), SAL will employ all resources to obtain every one of the objects of its desire. 

For most people, USD is the end game because of the physical enjoyments it can bring, but AI agents will have different and unique proclivities that shape their behavior in unique ways.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/edmundedgar explains a clever new scammer trick</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jy0ywq/daily_general_discussion_april_13_2025/mmvbsif/)

Something to be aware of when using LLMs to write code to handle crypto:

* LLM hallucinates various non-existent packages
* This shouldn't matter because you should just get an error, but
* Scammers have figured out what package names the LLM often makes up, registered those packages and used them for malware

<https://bsky.app/profile/janelleshane.com/post/3lmnpkz53vc2e>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/spupul6 outlines the path towards the Ethereum L1 becoming a beast</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jyrwki/daily_general_discussion_april_14_2025/mn124xr/)

If anyone was wondering where the 300m gaslimit from yesterday came from, its from a [Vitalik tweet](https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/1911214820948660237) written as a response to criticism:

"most prefer to dance kumbaya" is vibes, not reality.

From where I'm standing, there's basically universal agreement among researchers that gas limit increase features are top priority for glamsterdam.

[u/adietrichs](https://x.com/adietrichs) and others in ER have this as their primary focus: delayed execution, block-level access lists, 4444, gas pricing changes, all things that can together enable gas limit -> 300m (not 100m)

If the functionality is done sooner than glamsterdam, then glamsterdam itself can happen "sooner than glamsterdam". I'm seeing a lot of willingness to do faster hard forks post-pectra with near-zero pushback.

And all the other things are already in the pipeline. 7702 solves the "click two times to swap" thing, that's in pectra (though it requires wallet support). Based rollups are making rapid progress ([u/taikoxyz](https://x.com/taikoxyz) and [u/NethermindEth](https://x.com/NethermindEth) Surge are good to follow here). Long-term AA (7701) is being aggressively simplified (thank you [@yoavw](https://x.com/yoavw)!) so that we can get the benefits of abstracted verification (with censorship resistance) with minimum load on consensus spec."

Etherem is going to be a beast in no time.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Cartosys educates us on Uniswap V4</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jyrwki/daily_general_discussion_april_14_2025/mn26kgy/)

Ok listen up developers. Uniswap V4!!! Lemme tell you about it:   
  
Whether you're new to the space or been around for a while let's say you're like me and often get overwhelmed by all of the latest improvements and cutting edge projects. Asking myself "where do I focus my efforts that can be most productive, and contribute the most to the space?" 

I've also been heavily involved in startup funding in the Ethereum ecosystem for years and I can tell you growth opportunities are at foot. What Uniswap has done with V4 and [with hooks](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/concepts/hooks) in particular is an overlooked change in the entire smart contract dev landscape. Basically, any point along a Liquidity Pool life cycle, including swaps, they've created 10 places you can add a hook to customize and extend LP behaviors. Any hook can call any deployed contract on chain! Including your own.   
  
"Hey that sounds neat, but isn't it very niche and therefore very narrow in scope of what innovations can come from that?", One may ask. Well that is why this is a sleeping giant. Hooks just introduced huge swaths fertile ground for a cambrian explosion of advanced tokenomic designs and dynamic defi dapps.  Because what this does is creates a suite of battle-tested audited smart contract primitives. Lego's with which you can piece together a version of any major dapp on the market today and therefore the foundation of future new innovative dapps with a scope far far wider than just swaps.   
  
Currently [many projects](https://arrakis.finance/blog/uniswap-v4-is-live-these-are-the-hooks-to-look-out-for) are using V4 to do just that, incl:  

1. Limit LP functions including swaps to users that only hold any certain NFT 
2. Launcher for liquidity pools that stake their liquidity to earn yield
3. Mint rewards for active or high volume users
4. Token Launcher platforms  

This is a tip of the tip of the iceberg off the top of my head. But V4 designs can rapidly enable major advances in say, DAO treasury managment; NFT utilities, rewards, and royalty models; Community fund transparency, coordination, and cohesion. Let alone the countless nuances brought to DEX LP's as they exist today. AND OF COURSE, <<insert your vision here>>.  

* So, devs, I have some questions for you:   Do you want to leverage hyper-dynamic, diamond-strong code (cutting audit costs and time) for your smart contract ideas?  
* Do you want your dapp to be plugged into an ecosystem with $3B in TVL and pushing $2B in daily volume?
* Do you want to instantly connect to a network of the most cutting edge defi devs in the Ethereum space? 

Then get familiar with V4. Building from scratch puts you at a huge disadvantage.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/barthib notices similarities is propaganda</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jzklxj/daily_general_discussion_april_15_2025/mn7sah8/)

This morning, I was reading by chance an investigation on the 2024 Romanian presidential elections that got cancelled because of massive fraud through social media (a candidate promoting Putin's beliefs/propaganda and hating Europe passed the first round although he was unknown 2 months before and had officially spent $0 on his campaign).

I suspect that the groups behind the discreet financing of pro-Russian candidates and their shills in Europe (and possibly Trump in the USA) might very well be those orchestrating and financing social media influencers to manipulate the perception of cryptocurrencies to cast doubt on Ethereum superiority and readiness to host the Web 3. **The methods are interestingly similar.**

I spotted one name (for now): Bogdan Peșchir. The guy has been into crypto for a long time, has worked for Bitcoin companies and got involved in scams. He endorsed the antidemocratic Romanian candidate with personal statements as well as donations to hundred of influencers praising the candidate, and this was part of an operation where thousands of accounts (bots?) would comment tons of political videos over Tiktok to shill this candidate. Two intriguing facts that put Russia in the list of suspects are that his source of funds remains unknown and he lives in South Africa so how and why would he dedicate so much time and money to promote a Russian puppet in Romania?
You can find details and other names (that I still have to check for their possible involvement in cryptos) in reputed newspapers. For a summary about that guy, [this small article is a nice start](https://www.bursa.ro/bogdan-peschir-the-first-interface-of-calin-georgescu39s-campaign-financing-88741459).

If some of you are curious and find information regarding him and other discreet donators involved in crypto and helping Russian narratives, I suggest that we work together here. We might be more successful if we share our parallel work.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/ubiest brings up Justin Drake's recent L1 comments and u/haurog explains who L1 is for</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jzklxj/daily_general_discussion_april_15_2025/mn75q1e/)

[u/ubiest](https://reddit.com/u/ubiest):

There's more and more talk now about bringing normal non-whale users and even non-whale activity back to L1 Ethereum.. a lot of people have pushed back on Justin Drake's tweet [here](https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/1911698990044717129) and [here](https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/1911713203073028422) about how L1 should be for the top 0.1% of users/txs. Narrative is now changing to L1 should be for even more than that. How much more? For everyone?? This is a huge update to the Ethereum L2-centric vision. What does it mean???

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jzklxj/daily_general_discussion_april_15_2025/mn791sv/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

Ethereum mainnet is for anyone who wants to pay the Ethereum mainent fee. No one can stop you from using it in whatever way you like as long as you pay the fees. Ethereum mainnet fees dropped massively because a lot of the activity migrated to rollups. These lower L1 fees now make it possible again to use Ethereum mainnet for much lower value transactions, which is great and I also use it much more often. 

That ZKVMs will bring massive scaling is expected, but we are most probably a few years away for it to bring the scale that is mentioned in the twitter post. 

If we look at the numbers at the moment according to rollup.wtf L2s and rollups do about 300 tps and mainnet does around 15 tps. This means currently mainnet is for 5% of the transactions. Just 2 years ago (before blobs) rollups did the same number of transactions than Ethereum mainnet, so mainnet was for 50% of the users/transactions. If we look into the future a few years and take the numbers handed around at face value, Justin Drake calculates that then even with the massive scaling of Ethereum mainnet only 0.1% of all transactions will happen there. So, the trend is clear.

On the one hand it is a sentiment shift, by at least some of the more prominent twitter users like Justin drake, that 'normal' people can use mainnet again thanks to much lower fees due to a successful scaling implementation. Improvements in the upcoming hardforks will allow expansion of the Ethereum mainnet blockspace without compromising the decentralization of it too much. But at the same time the majority of the transactions will be on rollups (or L2s), so I do not see it as a big change in the rollup centric roadmap.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard comments on a shift in the stablecoin market</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k0dee8/daily_general_discussion_april_16_2025/mnff77x/)

EURC market cap up 155% YTD. An interesting side effect of this is I don't think the same revenue sharing agreement is in place between Circle and Coinbase for EURC as for USDC and there is no Tether equivalent leader for Euros so the destruction of the dollar could be a surprising windfall for Circle.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/edmundedgar explains the niche that Etherealize fills</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1k0dee8/daily_general_discussion_april_16_2025/mngh02l/)

> Truly revolutionary technologies tend to market themselves.

I mean mostly Ethereum does. Ethereum is growing constantly, it's actual user growth is phenomenal. In the last few years it's been limited by capacity but the combination of L2s and on-chain scaling means we're increasing capacity by something like 100x to 1000x over a few years, so now there's plenty of room for new users.

But there are some things, especially political lobbying and lobbying of large organizations, where it's useful to have a dedicated communications org making an effort.

This is especially true to the extent that Ethereum is competing with more centralized things and they have coordinated communications.

Then there's a special situation in the US where they have the culture wars so anything  that appeals to Person A, no matter how wonderful  and wholesome, will be positively repulsive to Person B. The EF previously had a vibe that traditionally appealed to government/enterprise (inclusivity, diversity, creativity) but now the US government really fucking hates that vibe, so it's useful to have another org for lobbying in the US.

</details>
