---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-03-21
episode: 104
guest: BREAD
guest_topic: "[MegaETH](https://www.megaeth.com/), a high throughput validium L2"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jga3s3/comment/miyvqkx/
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/@evmavericks/streams
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jga3s3/comment/mixivui/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> $3,260

[u/SelfmadeMillionaire](https://reddit.com/u/SelfmadeMillionaire)

> 0.02356

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jeqe0n/comment/miqh6td/)

*The address umique,*

*Ethreum machine tweak,*

*The DeFi boutique.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Stats with u/Dreth</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jfiaal/comment/miuol1c/)

# ETH stats

UTC Timestamp: **2025-03-20T19:49:00Z**

## Price and supply

| Metric                          | Value       |
|:--------------------------------|:------------|
| Current ETH price               | 1,977       |
| 24h change (%)                  | -2.76       |
| Average ETH price over 1 day    | 2,009       |
| Average ETH price over 7 days   | 1,932       |
| Average ETH price over 30 days  | 2,233       |
| Supply at merge                 | 120,521,140 |
| Current supply                  | 120,625,315 |
| Supply differential since merge | 104,175     |
| Total inflation since merge (%) | 0.09        |

## ETF Flow (in millions of USD)

### Summary

| Metric                                  |   Value |
|:----------------------------------------|--------:|
| Total ETF Flow                          |  2466.8 |
| Total ETF Flow over the last 3 days     |   -71.8 |
| Total ETF Flow on the last recorded day |   -11.7 |

### ETF Flow (last 3 days)

| Entity    |   2025-03-17 |   2025-03-18 |   2025-03-19 |   Total |
|:----------|-------------:|-------------:|-------------:|--------:|
| Blackrock |          0   |        -40.2 |        -12.9 |   -53.1 |
| Fidelity  |          0   |         -3.3 |         -2   |    -5.3 |
| 21 Shares |          0   |          0   |          0.7 |     0.7 |
| Grayscale |         -7.3 |          0   |         10.2 |     2.9 |
| Grayscale |          0   |         -9.3 |         -7.7 |   -17   |

#### Sources

- [ultrasound.money](https://ultrasound.money)
- [farside.co.uk](https://farside.co.uk/eth)
- [farside.co.uk ETH ETF full historical tables](https://farside.co.uk/ethereum-etf-flow-all-data/)
- [coinglass.com](https://coinglass.com/)

##### [Previous post](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jeqe0n/daily_general_discussion_march_19_2025/milmkn6/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/gand_ji</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jfiaal/comment/mito8vn/)

Greenday wasn't enough. What we really need is 30 seconds to Mars ($10k)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Wulkingdead is bullish once again</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jax69o/comment/mhsr1ly/)

Ok this morning i became bullish again but now im ULTRA bullish again! Yesterday's daily and today's daily are absolute GOLD! that's the quality i come here for! Thank you everyone here. 

peerDAS, blobs, based/native rollups, Vitalik's value accrual plan for ETH,... it's all gonna make ETH the hottest and most sexy asset ever.

Ethereum’s new leadership, etherealize, mass RWA tokenization, mass world wide stablecoin adoption, continued amazing updates with an amazing track record, all the institutions building on Ethereum,... 

Years ago i could keep track of what is happening on Ethereum,... But it has gotten so big i simply can't do that anymore. <https://ethereumadoption.com/>

Everything points to this being the most amazing investment opportunity of our lifetime. We just need to wait a little while longer and the many plans, ideas and dreams will be accomplished.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nick_badlands brings a nice hit of hope</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jax69o/comment/mhtk3s8/)

Just wanted to spread some hopium, it's what keeps me sleeping soundly watching my Eth underperform and social media kick it it constantly.  Just a reminder of the fundamentals that got me into this in the first place.

Since Satoshi published the whitepaper that laid out Bitcoin, there have really only been three truly original types of technologies launched.  

* Bitcoin - Proved a decentralised cryptocurrency running on blockchain was possible.
* Ethereum -  Proved using a blockchain and cryptocurrency to run applications was possible.
* Tokens/Apps/Things built on either of the above.

The blockchain trilemma, a phrase first coined by Vitalik lays out that basically, the three difficult parts to achieve with a blockchain are security, scalability and decentralisation.  Bitcoin and Ethereum are the only blockchains that prioritise being in the most perfect place possible with current blockchain development.

Everything else is just a copy of one these three types of cryptos and they all sacrifice one of those three core trilemma tenets to try to differentiate themselves. These things are important and at some point these other projects will probably get found out at some stage if they grow.

There's the famous quote "Markets can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent" 

I'm happy holding my Eth, one day the markets will no longer be irrational, well at least to some extent but I'm pretty sure the larger world will wake up to what is possible on Eth and why it matters to build things with either Bitcoin or Ethereum rather than the millions of copies.  

I think we are seeing that already with the US and other governments looking at Bitcoin seriously.  We have pretty much all the large finance institutions looking at Eth and plenty of large corporations too.  

We just need the price to catchup, have faith in the long-term people.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LowieVR discusses the demand for data availability and u/Shitshotdead delivers extra details</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jbomd7/daily_general_discussion_march_15_2025/mhzqm56/)

[u/LowieVR](https://reddit.com/u/LowieVR):

Just listened to the latest Milk Road Show podcast on Data Availability (DA) and how blobspace demand is set to outgrow blockspace demand. Their thesis:

* Apps are launching their own chains—eventually, there will be thousands or even millions.
* High-quality, decentralized DA is hard to organize, leading to increased outsourcing.
* Right now, the two major players are Ethereum and Celestia.

Looking at [growthepie.xyz](https://www.growthepie.xyz/data-availability), it seems Celestia handles more data at a lower cost than Ethereum, whose blobspace is currently almost entirely filled by Base.

Ethereum’s blobspace will improve with Pectra and PeerDAS, but can it scale fast enough to compete with other DA providers?

Any misconceptions here? Would love to hear your thoughts.  
  
How do you see Ethereum competing in the DA market?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jbomd7/daily_general_discussion_march_15_2025/mi0mdl2/)

[u/Shitshotdead](https://reddit.com/u/Shitshotdead):

Celestia current throughput is 1.333 MB/s, while ethereum is 0.064MB/s.

Ethereum will need to scale blobs by 20x current value to catch up to Celestia in throughput. So about 60 blobs target per block. (Doesn't sound too far fetched to me). Pectra will allow us to scale to 0.128 MB/s. Fusaka may allow us to reach at least 0.256 - 0.640 MB/s. Improvements to gossipsub is said to be able to double that again. So we may even reach celestia's throughput in 1 year.

Celestia blobspace is filled by an L2 called eclipse, which has a very small TVL and is an SVM. So it shows that it's not really that popular yet.

I think alt-DA markets will pop up, but it isn't a very lucrative market if that's the only thing that they do. If Ethereum is able to significantly improve throughput, it's possible that alternate DAs will not be able to pop up due to the low revenue that it generates.

Additionally if the community can push for based/native rollups, it is possible that ethereum's DA will win in the long run.

We just need to focus to be the most secure and most decentralized settlement layer, allowing companies to have peace of mind to use our DA and our network. After that, the rest is history.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth sets the record straight about L2 fees</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jcf0q5/daily_general_discussion_march_16_2025/mi36nmp/)

Correcting some misinformation that I think has spread from other platfroms

**Misinformation:**   
"Base pulled \~$2.5M in fees last month and paid Ethereum less than $11K. Optimism is making \~$321 in L2 fees for every $1 it pays to ETH. L2s are insanely profitable, but ETH barely sees any of this value."

**Correction:**  
Last month Base paid over $300k to Ethereum not $11k. Considering that the month previous they paid over $1.6M it seems even more misleading.   
  
This is not to say that Base doesn't make a healthy "onchain" profit with a 92.6% margin in the past 6 months, this cannot be denied. This, however, does not include offchain costs - which are significant.   
  
With Pectra doubling the target for blobs, we could charge 25% less per blob and still make 50% more revenue per blob. In reality, demand will determine the price per blob but there seems to be no shortage of that.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Ber10 educates us on based rollups then follows up</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jcf0q5/daily_general_discussion_march_16_2025/mi27b4n/)

I came to the conclusion that based rollups fix every issue that Ethereum currently has. I am a huge supporter of Based rollups and the introduction of based rollups will be a gamechanger.

How it works: Rollups wont do sequencing anymore. Validators will sequence. Result: L2s are 100% Ethereum infrastructure. Rollups recieve decentralized sequencers more stability and unifying userexperience between based rollups will be easier.

Also all economic activity on L2 will be exactly the same as economic activity on L1 literally no difference. As validators/sequencers can harvest the MEV. And all fees get burned not just 20%

Narrative fixes: rollups are extractive based rollups are not. Rollups are centralized based rollups are not. Rollups can switch DA. Based rollups cant. Economic activity stays on Ethereum and helps with SoV narrative.

Cons: L2 projects have less money- Answer: Nope they still have a token and can make billions with a governance token.

Optimism is working on implementing this: One Rollup implements this and the naturaly market pressure will cause others to do the same.

More stable L2s. L2s will never go down anymore. Then there is only one last issue left: Mutability. If we make the smart contracts immutable then rollups truly became Ethereum and offer 1:1 the same safety guaraantees. Thats the last step though.

I am rooting for based rollups and will support them as much as possible.

Based rollups will win as soon as they are introduced. Also having a few hundred satellite states with their unique sequencers and Datalayers additionally to based rollups wont hurt anymore.

Unifiyng based rollups making them seemless would be much easier than to somehow achieve this with different sequencer tech.

BTW wouldnt that fix also the issue of needing proofs? As slashing mechanics for those sequencing validators could be extended to L2 transactions. What am I missing?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jd5yhz/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2025/mid7fnn/)

To follow up on my based rollup post:

Based rollups let Ethereum validators do the sequencing. That functionality should be natively integrated into the core protocol. So any rollup can decide to let Ethereum validators do the sequencing services. This would require no infrastructure from them except keeping the chain history. So spinning up a rollup would be even easier and less risky.

Another advantage of Ethereum validators doing the sequencing: More profit for stakers ontop of higher burn for Ethereum = more attractive to stake higher token price higher security.. It all feeds into itself and would be a closed system with no holes spilling value and security. 

Based native rollups. We need that functionality. And the rollups that chose to keep their sequencer on purpose will automatically be less Eth aligned. We do not have based rollups in that sense yet that Ethereum validators do the sequencing.

It would make L2s as stable as L1. And as censorship resistant as L1 because Eth validators would do all the sequencing and we should also implement a slashing mechanism. So then L2s would be 1:1 as safe as L1. (well we would need to make the rollup contracts immutable)

Another thing that would be great is that then L2s are not subsidized and pay fully for the cost of safety. L2s need to be Ethereum and this is how we can do it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll asks about the game theory of based rollups and u/haurog provides a very insightful answer</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jd5yhz/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2025/mi93709/)

[u/Tricky_Troll](https://reddit.com/u/Tricky_Troll):

Just building off of u/Ber10's amazing [post on based rollups from yesterday,](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jcf0q5/daily_general_discussion_march_16_2025/mi27b4n/) what is the game theory to get L2s to actually upgrade to based rollups? Base aren't going to want to give up their income from sequencing. What's in it for them aside from a big loss of revenue? I am not wholly convinced that L2 users care enough to migrate from an L2 like Base to a based rollup on decentralisation and ideals alone. For example, the vast majority of people use Google Chrome, despite the fact that it is a privacy nightmare and giving away their own user data for free is against their own interests in most cases.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jd5yhz/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2025/miazyfj/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

In my view there is no reason for anyone to upgrade to based rollups, at least at the moment. There still are quite a bit of hurdles to overcome until they are better than current rollups.

Your question regarding income from sequencing is only half valid. Sequencing fees can be split into base fee and priority fee as most rollups use EIP-1559. Even when they upgrade to based the rollup creator should be able to decide what happens with the base fee. They are only giving the control away over the priority fee part. If we look at the ratio on Ethereum mainnet it was around 80-90% base fee and 10-20% priority fee for a very long time. I am not convinced that this exact ratio would hold on a rollup as well, but at least it gives an indication that the rollup creator might be able to keep a substantial part of the income. 

An additional advantage for the rollup creator is that they are able hand over part of their job to other actors, which lowers their operation cost and reduces their liabilities from a regulatory standpoint.

The disadvantage for the user at the moment is that based rollups have to keep the 12 second slot time of Ethereum which results in a worse UX compared to other rollups. At the moment normal rollups do not extract MEV directly and do not allow sandwiching. In based rollups toxic MEV is an issue again. Preconfirmations and MEV protection might solve most of the issues here. 

What based rollups can give the user in the future is seamless interoperability between different based rollups. This will allow more efficient trade exection and bring the different rollups closer together. Permissionless sequencing, which in my understanding comes with based rollups, will also give us pretty much real time censorship resistance.

There are reasons to think that based rollup might become a superior way of running rollups, we are just not there yet. At the moment there are pretty much no reasons for a rollup to become based though. I can see a future where 'normal' rollups will have to chose if they want to become based (or even native-based) for the better security guarantees and native interoperability it brings or if they turn into L2s with altDA for the cheaper execution prices and scalability they can get there. There might be no middle ground anymore.

Specific for the case of Base I have not seen yet any indication of them doing anything malicious or trying to defect from their goal of being a rollup. They are part of a publicly traded company and for sure do not do things out of the goodness of their heart. At the moment their goals still align very much with Ethereums goals, even though they are slower than competitors in making next steps regarding security. If they want to become a credibly neutral layer for other institutions to build on Base then I do not see another way than for them to become a based or even native-based rollup. If their goal is to 'just' bring defi to coinbase users, then their setup is good enough and there might be no reason to turn into a based rollup. We will see which niche they will try to occupy in the future.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard shares his latest write up, this time on next gen tokens</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jd5yhz/daily_general_discussion_march_17_2025/mib4hxv/)

New post is out! [Next gen tokens](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jdkt0o/next_gen_tokens/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/GregFoley asks about a risk of centralised stablecoins and u/haurog covers the nuances of hard forks</summary>
[View on Reddit →]()

[u/GregFoley](https://reddit.com/u/GregFoley):

<https://x.com/Tiza4ThePeople/status/1899526283413135701>

Do centralized stablecoins destroy Ethereum's decentralization? E.g. Circle has a bug that allows massive minting (coins get traded before they can get frozen) and proposes a fork to undo the exploit. You have to follow their fork if you want your USDC... or just don't want most of the major protocols to collapse due to their bad debt. Does this give Circle (or the US government control) over Ethereum? This isn't something I hear Vitalik or the other researchers taking about, so I think I may be missing something. (Edited to make it clearer that this isn't just stolen coins that can be frozen).

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jdyd7c/daily_general_discussion_march_18_2025/migpke8/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

A few points to consider. Doing a hardfork is hard. They would have to align a lot of people for this to succeed. First of all they would need to have at least some core devs ready to make new releases. Then they would have to convince many validators to update them and many of them are bigger than the 3B$ in this example. Comparing the Bybit hack of 1.5B$ where no one considered doing anything like that, I do not think 3B$ is a size big enough.

Even if they manage to coordinate, the attacker would know exactly which of their wallets are targeted. The hacker will just move them (their ETH) to another wallet right before the hardfork and then they (Circle) would have to coordinate another fork. This makes it is impossible to move the funds back into the proper wallets. So, forking the ETH back into the victims wallet is actually pretty much impossible. 

Rolling the chain back to a time before the hack will cost more than could reasonably be stolen from Circle as all the validators attesting to the new rolled back chain would get slashed for their ETH. If more than 1/3 would go to the forked chain they would lose all their staked ETH. The newly forked chain could give amnesty to the validators, but they would still lose all their staked ETH on the original chain. Pretty big hurdle for achieving this. That is why Rollbacks have never been done on Ethereum and are now, with Proof of stake, pretty much impossible. Tim Beiko has more on this: <https://xcancel.com/TimBeiko/status/1893412457567383559> Proof of Work chains can relatively easy do rollbacks and Bitcoin has done so at least 2 times in its life time. Proof of stake chains without slashing (almost all the ones outside of Ethereum) can also easily roll back.

The only way to prevent this is for Circle to lock down their smart contracts as much as possible and have strict access control to the upgradeable parts. Continuous monitoring will help in detecting irregularities before they have an effect on chain. Once they are hacked and the funds are in ETH there is pretty much nothing they can do.

From Ethereum side we have to make sure, that no single entity has control over a large part of the Ecosystem. We need multiple smaller stablecoin providers. Centralized and Decentralized ones. We need multiple LST and LRT providers. That is why the community rebelled against the plan of Lido and stETH becoming the new ETH. We need multiples of everything, or in other words we need diversity, so that any breach of any protocol will at most impact only a small subset of the network. That is what resilience means. Danny Ryan has a presentation about this from devconnect in Istanbul. There is also a blog post from around that time. I cannot find the blog post at the moment but here is the video: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i3SdCpi6GKc>

Edit: Clarified the end sentence in the 2nd paragraph and added nuance in paragraph 3.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog comments on Coinbase's staking transparency report while u/eth2353 makes a good point about why it is particularly important that Coinbase's stake share doesn't grow</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jeqe0n/daily_general_discussion_march_19_2025/miorabq/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

Coinbase release a staking transparency report today: <https://www.coinbase.com/blog/ethereum-validator-performance-report>

Until now it was unknown how many validators coinbase runs. Hildobby, famous for his dune dashboards, managed to track down about 86k validators (8% of all validators). It was clear that not all were found. Some estimated that coinbase runs up to 21% of the 1.05 million validators on Ethereum. 

In their transparency report coinbase says they run 120k validators which is 11.4% of all validators in the network. I am very happy about this low number. I always assumed more of a worst case scenario that they run 20-25% of all validators already and the staking ETFs will further add to that. Now that they have only half of that I worry much less about centralization risks of the staking layer. 

They run Lighthouse (20%) and Prysm (80%) together with Geth(36%) and Nethermind (64%). Not an excellent client diversity, but much better than they had a year ago, when it was 100% geth.

Overall I see it as a positive development that they released such a report especially because the unknown number of coinbase validators was always a bit of an issue when discussing centralization risks.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jeqe0n/daily_general_discussion_march_19_2025/mip1rzs/)

[u/eth2353](https://reddit.com/u/eth2353):

Thanks for sharing, this transparency is nice to see, finally! (e.g. Lido's been doing this kind of thing for years, but better late than never)

Coinbase's size is still about 10x what I'd personally like the biggest single staking entities to be, and with staking ETFs I am still wary of them growing further. Considering they (Coinbase/Circle) are also a stablecoin issuer I think it's a bit dangerous for them to have a lot of power over Ethereum's consensus layer – in case of a potential future stablecoin-related fork they could choose the fork that benefits the stablecoin instead of a more neutral fork.

> Now that they have only half of that I worry much less about centralization risks of the staking layer.

I'm glad it's less than we expected, but it hasn't changed my own view too much. Ethereum's decentralization is not terrible at the moment, but since the beacon chain launched it has basically only gotten worse... From a comment I made last month:

> 25 staking service providers today run 50% of the network's validators, so even today, only 25 companies could decide to increase the gas limit if they wanted to [potentially increasing it to a value where home stakers are unable to keep up].

Anyway, good news for today, I hope they continue doing these on a regular basis. But the battle for a decentralized Ethereum is far from over!

</details>
