---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-06-06
episode: 114
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/Lyoj5M0bGv
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_d2zfQLltCA
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l4l642/comment/mw9s5c5/)

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $2458.76

[u/SelfmadeMillionaire](https://reddit.com/u/SelfmadeMillionaire)

> 0.02384

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kzq07u/comment/mvasqlz/)

*Pre-confirmation,*

*Crosschain communication,*

*Blockspace abstraction.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/InsuranceGuyQuestion notices a significant statement by the SEC then u/EthFan has an update on staking from the SEC</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ky3d0m/daily_general_discussion_may_29_2025/mv0bggh/)

[u/InsuranceGuyQuestion](https://reddit.com/u/InsuranceGuyQuestion):

<https://www.sec.gov/newsroom/speeches-statements/statement-certain-protocol-staking-activities-052925>

HUGE Info here by the SEC.

If this goes through that means staking ETH won't be considered a security transaction.  Which can eliminate the current tax burden we all have to pay with staking ETH awards.

This also paves the way for an easier ETH Staking ETF approval since brokerages won't have to worry about breaking security laws. This is massive regulation clarity.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kywv4z/comment/mv2hof9/)

[u/EthFan](https://reddit.com/u/EthFan):

Wow, the SEC really added to the original statement since yesterday, they updated at least twice to further clarify items since it was posted. My question is for US stakers, if staking rewards are deemed not securities, then would staking rewards only be taxed once as income or as capital gains?

SEC Link: <https://www.sec.gov/newsroom/speeches-statements/statement-certain-protocol-staking-activities-052925>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/TheHansGruber Discusses operator numbers on NodeSet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kzq07u/comment/mv9kvbk/)

There are now 60+ operators with nodeset running 12 validators each, with the other 100 or so operators catching up to the current max (12). The amount of eth committed/expected thus far is going to take each operator closer to 50 each.

Couple hundred thousand eth staked across a diverse and decentralized group of home stakers, semi-pro, and pro operators with average validator performance matching/exceeding existing massive and centralized entities, whilst upholding ethereum's ethos and retaining the ability to scale to whatever size deposits roll in.

When the staking ETFs go live...it will only be a matter of time before they realize some, if not all, of that eth can and should be staked with nodeset.

Disclaimer: I am an operator with nodeset, and lack the ability to be bearish.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/FillTheDots is looking for feedback back on a self-custody set up</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kzq07u/comment/mv8j06p/)

Hi all!

A few months ago I wrote some considerations about how to achieve a convenient yet safe self-custodial setup. Recently I put some more thought into it, taking inspiration from some established bank security approaches and running through some common scenarios.

I am posting my thoughts here to gain valuable feedback, check whether I am missing something, and sharing it with whom might be looking for similar solutions.

**Objectives:**

* Conveniently use only your phone for your daily spending
* Have a bank-equivalent degree of safety against common scenarios
* Still have full self-custody
* Be relatively cheap (cost is essentially a Trezor)

**Setup:**

The core of it is a Safe account in 2/2 configuration, with the following features:

* Signer 1 is your phone with the Safe Wallet app, configured with a personal spending allowance of 100 USDC a day.
* Signer 2 is a Trezor, used in addition to signer 1 to approve operations without limits, configured with a [wipe code](https://trezor.io/learn/security-privacy/create-wipe-code-to-erase-device).
* A recovery code (see [safe recovery module](https://help.safe.global/en/articles/110656-account-recovery-with-safe-recoveryhub)) configured with a 1-month delay, written in encrypted form on one or more pieces of non-degradable material and placed in one or more secret locations.

**Common (and less common) loss/theft scenarios:**

1. **What if my phone gets stolen or lost?** Your funds are safe, as an attacker would still need to bypass your pin/password/fingerprint/face protections. And even in such highly unlikely case he would be able to steal only 100 USDC per day. Use the recovery code to reassign signing rights.
2. **What if my Trezor gets stolen or lost?** The same reasoning for the phone applies. Use the recovery code to reassign signing rights.
3. **What if my recovery code gets stolen or lost?** An attacker would still need the decryption password to access it. Should he somehow have it, he'd still have to wait for 1 month to take control of the account, during which you'd get notified on the Safe Wallet app and be able to cancel the attempt. Use your phone and the Trezor to replace the recovery code.
4. **What if I am threatened with a 5$ wrench to hand everything over?** Pretend the Trezor is broken and give the attacker the wipe code. Using that will make the device effectively unusable. From that moment the only option the attacker has is to use your recovery code and wait for one month. Hopefully you get rescued in that time.

**A couple of features I wish Safe had to make this even better:**  
\- The ability to block spending immediately without delay using the recovery code. This would allow to immediately block the attacker from accessing your 100 USDC daily allowance in the worst case of scenario #1.  
\- The ability to replace the recovery code with social recovery, similarly to Argent's guardians concept.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/sm3gh34d investigates the bandwidth implications of pumping the gas and u/Biggerfooter covers all core dev support for the 60M gas limit!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l0hsvj/daily_general_discussion_june_01_2025/mveqprj/)

[u/sm3gh34d](https://reddit.com/u/sm3gh34d):

<https://ethresear.ch/t/analyzing-eip-7623-increase-calldata-cost/19002>


Using the eip 7623 eip estimates for 30mgas, the max block size post pectra for a 60mgas block should be <2mb. That is still significantly lower than max block size before pectra at 30mgas.


The sustained block traffic will be higher at 60mgas, but likely won't be too terrible. Did you see the empirical research from pandaops?
<https://ethpandaops.io/posts/60m-gas-sepolia-hoodi/>


It is worth checking your bandwidth at home. Maybe limit your peer count by half if you notice a big spike in utilization. Execution peers are mostly a cost except during reorgs. Most nodes can get by very well with 25 or fewer execution peers, but most clients default to 50+. Consensus layer peers affect financial performance, so I would be more judicious about dropping below the typical default of 100.


I would measure my traffic before and after and react to what you observe. There are a number of variables like p2p transaction propagation, serving sync traffic, etc that make giving a reliable traffic estimate fraught.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l1aj1t/daily_general_discussion_june_02_2025/mvn3d0z/)

[u/Biggerfooter](https://reddit.com/u/Biggerfooter):

Gas Limit Increase to 60M Accepted:
Client teams aligned on raising the gas limit to 60 million. Any increase beyond 60M should be gradual.

from todays ACDT call

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/growthepie_eth delivers some impressive growth stats on Ethereum this last week!</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l1aj1t/daily_general_discussion_june_02_2025/mvlu7q4/)

Last week Ethereum weekly engagement hit a new ATH:  

Over 17 million addresses engaged with the Ethereum ecosystem last week - Up 16.95% from last week!    Most of the growth came from wallets using a Single Layer 2, with a slight increase in Cross-Layer activity  

Full Breakdown:  
- Single Layer 2: 15M (86.2%)  
- Ethereum Mainnet: 1.8M (10.4%)  
- Mutiple Layer 2s: 327k (1.9%)  
- Cross-Layer: 264K (1.5%)

Top 3 Chains:  
- Base: 11.67M (70.91%)  Cross-Chain: 3.1%  
- Ethereum Mainnet: 2.08M (12.7%) Cross-Chain: 12.7%  
- Arbitrum One: 1.29M (7.83%)  Cross-Chain: 24.1%

Moving onto the Monthly metrics for May we have seen all-time highs in:  
Throughput, Active Addresses, Transaction Count, Ethereum Blobs - Data Posted.

Data from growthepi

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog details the announced re-organisation of Ethereum Foundation R&D</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l24geh/daily_general_discussion_june_03_2025/mvqbt66/)

Yesterday there was a big announcement of a reorganisation of the Ethereum foundation R&D which they now call Protocol: <https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/06/02/announcing-protocol>

We had a discussion here a few weeks ago about reorganizing the Ethereum foundation structure: <https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kq4i2u/daily_general_discussion_may_19_2025/mt33f2p/>


Quite a few new groups have been built and quite a few old ones have been removed. I guess some of the reshuffling of people was just formalizing what was a reality for some time anyway. Meaning, people did jobs that were not associated with their former teams, so they made some new teams now. Other changes are to focus on what is important in the next few years. Some changes have been more drastic. The engineering side of things has seen some drastic changes. The hardest hit one is the Portal team. The whole team has been disbanded and the people have been let go. In my understanding the portal network was an important part of the longer term plan for history expiry and general light client access to Ethereum. Apparently it was not deemed important. Similar is the Ipsilon team. Only 2 of the 7 people stay at the Ethereum Foundation. The ipsilon team did the implementation and analysis of everything related to the EVM. I guess after the whole EOF debacle things had to be reorganized. Also the two programming language specific teams (Javascript and Python) have been disbanded. Some people have found new homes in other teams which use that specific programming language (STEEL), but in the javascript team only 1 person stays at the Ethereum foundation. 

On the research side of things, some teams (Cryptography, Security and RIG) have been untouched. Some others (ARG, Consensus, ResearchOps) have been split up and reorganized into new teams. I do not see any large change here, except changing names. The biggest person missing is Mike Neuder. He will be missed. But he announced that he will pursue a PhD at Princeton, so I guess that was the reason he is not on the new chart anymore.

Again, as an outsider like me it is hard to tell if the changes are good or bad, but things are changing at the Ethereum Foundation.

EDIT: Completely forgot to mention Péter Szilágyi who was the geth lead is not on the new chart anymore. Not surprising as he was on a sabbatical since last autumn and it did not sound like he is coming back anyway. With this new chart this seems to be definitive. He never was the easiest person in the space, especially his emotional tweets have not made him a lot of friends in the space. But he lead the geth team since 2017 or so after Jeff Wilcke left for health reasons. Péter and the geth team were responsible that Ethereum had a very stable and resilient client even during the more stormy weathers of its past.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nixorokish shares her third all core dev call summary, Checkpoint #3</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l24geh/daily_general_discussion_june_03_2025/mvu6hcn/)

Checkpoint #3 is posted! They're high-level summaries* of the state of core development. I spend way too much time following the core development process, so this is a really easy way for me to make sure people don't have to spend 2.5 hours a week watching youtube livestreams to keep up with the state of Ethereum upgrades. As always, please let me know if there's any way I can make the next one better!!

u/sm3gh34d - I did manage to get the anchor links there this time! With u/wackerow 's help

<https://blog.ethereum.org/2025/06/03/checkpoint-3>

^* ^(I feel like I should clarify that these are entirely human-written and not even AI assisted hah. So you're reading my words, not some generated slop.)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard looks far into the future to discuss UBI and human employment in a world of abundance and advanced AI</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1l2y43t/daily_general_discussion_june_04_2025/mw152pi/)

Next up in my [AI post series](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1kklbna/daily_general_discussion_may_12_2025/mry7owy/?context=3), I'll be talking about UBI and full employment.

The second outcome is that we recognize the horrors laying ahead and manage to coordinate as a species at an unprecedented level. There are many challenges here. Not only do we not have consensus at a philosophical level on "giving people free money" the entrenched power structures will work at every step to protect the status quo. Even if we had society wide consensus how do you actually implement this agenda? Where does the money come from?

If you try to tax it from corporations and billionaires I expect they'll just incorporate in a different jurisdiction. You're playing a [race to the bottom](https://tokenomicsexplained.com/molochs-toolbox) game between various governments around the world for who is willing to give those billionaires the most favorable treatment to live there. Any form of wealth tax on digital wealth (most things except property tax) can escape the tax jurisdiction. Also good luck jailing an AI agent or corporation for not being in compliance with your tax laws. Blockchains only exacerbate this problem because judicial orders can't be enforced on addresses like they can be on bank accounts. Laws only hold people accountable, systems that function independent of people lack an enforcement point for laws.

Printing the money isn't viable at this scale either when everyone can just store their value in something that isn't robbing them. A long running thesis of mine is that blockchains are removing the friction of converting between different denominations of value. A combination of tokenized securities, decentralized exchanges, and fiat offramps will enable you to "spend" MSFT shares at point of sale to buy a sandwich. The buyer won't need to hold hyperinflationary fiat. Even the receiving business doesn't need to hold their cashflow in fiat  as long as they carve off the sales tax before converting it into the store of asset value of their choice. So what's left?

The most sustainable implementation I've read about bypasses the existing monetary system entirely. Rather than give people money to spend you create automation at a common good level (excludible, non-rivalrous) that grants each person a non-alienable claim to a pro-rata share of the output. Everyone can claim their ration of bread. However, as soon as you give people choice in what goods to claim you're going to end up creating a market with some new type of [FoodCoin](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8xzINLykprA&ab_channel=WendoverProductions) to balance supply and demand on each commodity. This is basically a new money that only has claim on automation rather than human labor. Of course even proposing this system begs the question of how do you build it in the first place. It's like saying we could solve world hunger if someone gave us the magic bread making machine from the thought exercise above. I'm open minded to new ideas but I haven't come across anything I deem sustainable yet.

The internet's favorite take increasingly seems to be burn it all down and start the monetary system from zero. I don't know if a revolution is actually viable in a world where AI can deduce the thought leaders and then the police just disappear them as terrorists. Modern technology has increased the number of people that can be suppressed by a single compliant individual by a few orders of magnitude since the last time wealth inequality reached this level and the guillotines reset everything. I doubt it will play out this way but if it does it isn't going to play out like the romanticized ideas of the collapse community.

Also, controversial take: I'm not actually a fan of a pure UBI future. Even in the unlikely case where we could politically align on both a direction and implementation *and implement it* without corruption, coordination failures, or eventual corporate capture I still think it dangerously disregards human psychology and incentive alignment. Amongst the best possible outcomes of this route is some distant Wall-E/Brave New World style future where our lives consist of empty pleasures all day, we lose our capacity for critical thinking, and either populate until we reach the resource limits of whatever section of space we have access to or go extinct because we have no drive to expand at all.

The sole source of hope I'll give you in this direction is that there's nothing in the rules of physics which says that we should be able to make so much more with so much less work and that we should be poorer for it at the median. Rome was able to offer the daily bread to citizens 2000 years ago when the productivity per farmer wasn't 1/100th of what it is today. One out of two people in the US used to be farmers; now it's less than 1%. The world doesn't have an energy, housing, or food shortage. Humanity has a giving-a-shit shortage, especially amongst those with all the power. We have a global empathy shortage and mass coordination failure that perpetuates extraordinary amounts of unnecessary suffering. A more humane future is *physically* possible.

</details>
