---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-04-11
episode: 107
guest: Everdred
guest_topic: "[Ether Guild](https://etherguild.xyz), like Protocol Guild but for ETH"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/JzFaCMEXnD
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QFL4cJjhzmc
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jwiyn9/comment/mmiqeep/)

[u/Harfatum](https://reddit.com/u/Harfatum)

> Ethereum.

[u/https://reddit.com/user/FrenktheTank/](https://reddit.com/u/https://reddit.com/user/FrenktheTank/)

> $1550.50

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.01922

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jrws8e/comment/mlle178/)

*Wandering into,*

*The deepest blob data stew,*

*Ethereum two.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Ethzenn</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1juyv98/comment/mmaof9u/)

Look at USDC lagging behind yet again. Every time the market pumps it just stays the same. 0% on the 24 hour charts, what a joke. Time to dump all my USDC, it's a dead coin.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog covers Nethermind pushing the limits with their client</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jr4xtp/daily_general_discussion_april_04_2025/mlc8umc/)

Yesterday, Kamil Chodola of the Nethermind team did some Benchmarks on their execution client in a small testnet. They tried to push as many transactions through as possible to see what the practical limits of their execution client is. Nethermind has been pushing the performance quite a bit over the last few years and it is impressive how fast blocks are verified even on slower machines. 

In their test they built a small local testnet with 2 nodes and 128 validators and then they started sending simple ETH transfer transactions. They managed to build and propagate Blocks equivalent of 1.5 GGas/s in their network. This is about a 1000 times faster then Ethereum mainnet is. A few hours later, the ethpandaops team pushed it even above 1.9 GGas/s. These are over 90k tps. The ethpandaops team even said that their tools to create even larger blocks are lacking so they are not even able to push the nethermind client to its limits at the moment.  

That is pretty impressive to be honest. Obviously this is a test environment and we will not see these numbers in the near future on mainnet. The point being is that the EVM is not inherently limiting Ethereums performance, it is rather some more fundamental physical limitations, bandwidth and ssd speed, and the adherence to core principles, like a decentralized base layer, which currently limit the speed. But it is great to know, that in a few years when we get a snarkified mainnet the execution clients are ready to push the tps values to unimaginable heights.

And as an additional bonus. A block with that many transactions can easily burn several dozens of ETH and give several ETH rewards to the block proposer without even considering any MEV rewards. I will definitely take those. 

Sources

Nethermind tweet

<https://x.com/ChodoKamil/status/1907805612353761770>

or

<https://xcancel.com/ChodoKamil/status/1907805612353761770>

ethpandops tweet

<https://x.com/parithosh_j/status/1907881751147368675>

or

<https://xcancel.com/parithosh_j/status/1907881751147368675>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll just realised how bad echo chambers are and how badly we need open source algorithms or decentralised social media</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jr4xtp/daily_general_discussion_april_04_2025/mldal9p/)

Man, comparing the "for you" feed on Twitter between my personal account I barely use and with a project I'm working on's feed which is partially tailored to a coworker with different political beliefs is fucking scary. You'd have two completely different perceptions of the world if it was your only news source.

Aside from Reddit's strong left bias, I've generally been pretty sheltered from this shit as I intentionally avoid anything algorithmic. For media consumption I use:

- FreeTube - Private front end for YouTube. This means no recommended for you videos. Just subscriptions and related videos.

- Reddit - Only use r/all on Libreddit private front end and then r/Ethereum on this account. No personalised feed.

- Ground News, Reuters + BBC for news.

- Podcasts, but mostly crypto only, usually hardcore Ethereum like Daily Gwei, GreenPill and to a lesser degree Bankless.

So needless to say, suddenly getting either a feed of 1) people criticising Trump's tariff policies, and then 2) a bunch of rage bait culture war distraction topics about immigrants and DEI etc, just depending on what account I'm logged into is a completely novel and deeply concerning experience. Of course, I've known of this problem for a decade now, but today was the day that it really sunk in.

If we don't open source algorithms and put limitations on them, free western societies are fucked. The average person is not smart enough to deal with this and remain well informed. You can see it in the decline of many many people over the last decade. Joe Rogan as one example, despite never being the smartest person in the room, he used to be quite nuanced, inquisitive and left leaning but holding very much his own beliefs combined from both sides of the aisle. Now... well we all know what he's like now. You've got billionaires, domestic political entities and foreign powers all pushing narratives hard with bots and astroturfing campaigns 24/7. None of which are aligned with the interests of the everyday person.

We need decentralised social media, but how the hell can we compete not only with the network effects of existing platforms, but with the addictiveness of all these algorithms?

You know, I'm starting to think having humans being the pets of a runaway artificial super intelligence overlord will actually be a good outcome at this rate because we sure as shit can't govern ourselves responsibly with all of this self-destructive technology.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/GregFoley started a new regular post and is looking for feedback</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jrws8e/daily_general_discussion_april_05_2025/mlj8nq8/)

For those of you that don’t get out of the Daily: I started doing posts at the top level of r/Ethereum summarizing Ethereum news. They’re called *Yesterday in Ethereum*. I’ve now done this for a month, which was 15 Yesterday posts. If you haven’t seen it, here are a couple of the most-upvoted posts:

[March 5](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j4bf2b/yesterday_in_ethereum_wednesday_march_5_2025/): EF co-directors, White house crypto summit, hardware wallets, MegaETH…

[March 23](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ji80kr/yesterday_in_ethereum_sunday_march_23_2025/): Ethereum is the obvious blockchain to do tokenization on, according to BlackRock…

In this post I’ll:

* Ask you how I can improve it,
* Tell you what I learned from doing it,
* Tell you my objectives in starting it,
* And ask if you if it's practical to keep it going: to justify continuing to spend time on it, I’ll probably have to find a way to monetize it.

**How can I improve it?**

What are your likes, dislikes, and suggestions for improvement for Yesterday in Ethereum? Also, can I come up with a better name for it? The name came from: I’m one of those people who always reads the Daily the next day, so I knew I wouldn’t be breaking any news in these posts, and I didn’t want people to have the expectation of more than a summary of what’s happened.

**What I learned from doing it:**

I was spending a lot of time following Ethereum anyway, so I thought I might as well write it up for other people that don’t have the time to follow Ethereum closely. It couldn’t take much longer than what I was already doing, right? I said I’d try it for a month, anyway, to see how it worked. It takes longer than expected, however, and then I started to spend more time reading about Ethereum, as I felt I’d better be more knowledgeable if I was going to explain things to other people.

It was also harder than expected because Reddit shadow-bans some posts because of banned links. Some of my posts didn’t go up till long after I'd first tried to publish them, as I figured out what was wrong (thanks to u/Tricky_Troll for help with that).

I think I’ve learned how to minimize time wasted on banned links now, however. First, test post things in a sub where you’re a moderator. Just create your own sub if you don’t have one (they’re free). That way you can immediately see if a post was removed by Reddit. I also check posts from an alternate account. Then do A/B testing until you find the problem link. You can probably find a different link to replace it with, e.g. from X, which doesn't seem to have a ban problem.

Suggestions from my learning about banned links:

As a sub, we should collect a list of banned links and disseminate it. DAO forums are one category, as well as other major Ethereum sites like eips dot ethereum dot org and ens dot domains.

As Reddit users, we ought to try to get Reddit to change their bad policies: massive over-banning of links, no transparency on what links are banned, and shadow-bans so you don’t know there’s a problem with your content. Does someone here want to start a sub and a movement to pressure Reddit to reform this?

**My objectives in starting Yesterday in Ethereum**

Yesterday in Ethereum is what I wish existed, but doesn’t: a way to follow Ethereum pretty closely (not just news but also useful information) without spending much time on it.

I wanted it to be a tl;dr (I almost always summarize the things I link to); promote the Daily (as most Reddit users will only see the top level of r/Ethereum, never go into the Daily); evangelize Ethereum (I’m a true believe, and I find it easy to write positive things about it); and educate people about Ethereum. The last point overlaps a lot with evangelization. Many of you have a better technical understanding of Ethereum than me, but I think I’m pretty good at ELI 15-ing it: making it easy for people to understand the value of the technology.

**Do you think I can get monetize this?**

I’d like to keep on doing this, and preferably improve it (e.g. with an email newsletter). I enjoy doing it, but it takes a lot of time so I’d probably have to monetize it to justify continuing to spend the time on it. Do you think it’s practical to monetize it? Do you have any suggestions on how to do it? I remember that u/EvanVanNess had a grant from the Ethereum Foundation for the Week in Ethereum News (though he lost it)… or I could ask if a major crypto publication wants me to do it for them (though I prefer independence).

Yesterday in Ethereum may go on hiatus for a while, or stop (maybe I’ll do one more this weekend, if I have time), as I think about whether I can continue it.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Kristkind brings up recent US regulatory development and u/No_Industry9653 digs deeper on this topic</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jrws8e/daily_general_discussion_april_05_2025/mlkuv2x/)

[u/Kristkind](https://reddit.com/u/Kristkind):

I found this an interesting read:

<https://decrypt.co/313335/crypto-legislation-free-industry-sec-oversight-critics-warn-pandoras-box>

Tl,dr: Republican lawmakers potentially comprehensively wrecking regulation through backdoor by new crypto law

I'd be interested in a discussion

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jrws8e/daily_general_discussion_april_05_2025/mlmf6js/)

[u/No_Industry9653](https://reddit.com/u/No_Industry9653):

> A source familiar with the bill’s creation told Decrypt this clause was added specifically to prevent the legislation from implicating any existing securities regulations pertaining to non-digital assets. That would mean Tesla and other publicly traded companies would not be able to circumvent existing securities by simply pivoting to crypto.
> 
> Frayer, though, doesn’t buy the argument. He maintains that securities regulation has, for decades, relied on the holistic discretion of regulators to determine whether any given asset is a security or not, with the aid of tools like the Supreme Court’s Howey test. 

Overall this seems like a necessary thing to do, given that the "discretion" this person is touting is very obviously subject to being abused to punish things regulators happen to dislike for reasons unrelated to the law, as the previous administration had no qualms with doing.

To play devil's advocate though, this kind of brings to mind a [part of a recent Bankless episode](https://youtu.be/IJN_pgkKPjA?t=5183) (timestamp included); supposedly the meta has shifted from protocols where the code is intended as the only real guarantee, to a model where the main thing investors are hoping to get value from is actually the future efforts of the central team behind the project. The example was mentioned of AAVE considering launching a new token, and holders being outraged by the idea because of their expectation that new stuff would benefit their existing investment. To me it seems like it would be not great if there are many tokens out there which in practice their value comes from an implied commitment to continue working on the project, but also this is entirely on a "trust me bro" basis and no government backed investor protections apply, because that's an obvious recipe for people getting ripped off. Not sure if that's really a risk with this legislation or not, maybe this kind of thing would get classified as securities anyway. Personally I'd like to see more crypto projects which are protocol only and don't function like a company.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/NextLevelFantasy shares some under appreciated Ethereum DApps</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jsnf2h/daily_general_discussion_april_06_2025/mlsvfny/)

Legit love learning about ETH infra, mechanism design and the seeming inevitability of it being the home of the world's settlement. But it is all about what dapps get built imo.

Gardens Conviction Voting - <https://app.gardens.fund/gardens> - It's being used for one of the Community Rounds in GG23, [Gitcoin Grants Garden](https://1hive-gardens.notion.site/Gitcoin-Grants-Garden-GG23-1b6d6929d0148057ab81c0dbee6475ba). Can't shill this shit hard enough as a customizable governance mechanism.

Think Impact Miner by Atlantis is the most exciting app meant to incentivize real world regeneration <https://www.atlantisp2p.com/>impact-miner

Stablecoins + Embedding our values into money - <https://www.glodollar.org/> and <https://breadchain.xyz/> are two takes on Auto PGF vs the alternative where yield of the T-Bills and cash equivalents backing the stables go to Circle/Tether.

NFA, and I'd really appreciate big brains opinions, but maybe $EARTH from <https://www.solarpunkdao.earth/> + Azos Finance, <https://azos.finance/> + Other apps in [this tweet](https://x.com/solarpunkmaxi/status/1903701630706683923)

Sucks that non stable based treasuries are getting blasted but builders are gunna keep building.

*Edit*: Some more things that I'm following and seem really cool but I eat crayons and don't actually know what is happening most of the time <https://helios.eco/> + <https://www.ethichub.com/> + <https://www.hypercerts.org/> + RevNets <https://rev.eth.sucks/memo/>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Cartosys looks at which blockchain hosts all the growth/innovation and the people who spin ecosystem narratives</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jtee9f/daily_general_discussion_april_07_2025/mluxi45/)

BTC maxis are led by [powerful and rich OG's that largely control the entire crypto narrative](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1j9cuge/comment/mhdx7fn/), by leveraging  media outlets and thought leader messaging. Read that link. You'll see how biased, vitriolic, and hostile that narrative has been and continue to be specifically towards ETH. This goes as far back to the days of the ETH launch in 2015.  You still see bumpersticker fud posted every day having origins going back years. 

So, we're talking about conditions? Well current market conditions are far beyond ETH's or any crypto's control. But as far as the crypto ecosystem here are the facts:   
  
Every major blockchain innovation and development post-BTC-launch has come from the ETH community. Not only is it THE developer-centric blockchain, who's dev mindshare is miles deep and lightyears ahead of any other, it also is the ecosystem that gave birth to: Smart Contracts, DeFi Lending, Decentralized Exchanges, Proof of Stake, Stablecoins, NFTs, rollups, etc. Yeah and look at the metrics for all of those. Ethereum [consistantly dominates in TVL, unique addresses, and volume, across every category](https://dappradar.com/rankings/chains). (unless you believe BNB's numbers, lol). Oh and where is BTC on that list?

Look IF blockchain tech means anything; IF blockchain tech provides ANY value, there is only one ecosystem, community, and coin that has constantly innovated and delivered without making trilemma sacrifices. Ever heard of the trilemma? 

So yes. The actual "conditions" have been in place for many many years.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tricky_Troll wants to see the next generation of community educators to step up in these tough times</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jtee9f/daily_general_discussion_april_07_2025/mluua8d/)

Investing is never easy. You need to do your own research to be effective and reach your own conclusions. But often, we need help in doing that. People need to point you in the right direction. Share lessons learned, share good sources of information and impart on others the values which built this ecosystem.

In 2018 and 2019, I remember I learned a lot from the likes of Anthony Sassano and Eric Conner on the EthHub podcast and u/DCInvestor in the r/EthTrader discussion threads. I even remember being unable to sleep at 3 am, choosing instead to watch videos of Sergey Nazarov talking about Chainlink in a lecture theatre with maybe a dozen people in it. Since then, it has been the likes of u/superphiz, u/haurog, u/LogrisTheBard etc. From all of these people, I learned enough to start posting myself. Sharing my findings, my experiences and hopefully educating others and allowing them to make better decisions.

Why does this matter? Well, because, without these people, I wouldn't have made it through the 2018/19 bear market. I'd have lost thousands of dollars and moved on. But I didn't. I stuck around. I identified that the sentiment and price did not match the fundamentals and bet on what I could see was a cheap valuation for a groundbreaking network.

So while the tech and adoption fundamentals are better than ever, you now have an opportunity. 6 months ago many of you were asking for cheap ETH. Now that it's here, people don't want it. People are calling ETH dead. That is despite exponential L2 growth and [Ethereum adoption](https://ethereumadoption.com) suggesting otherwise.

So do yourselves a favour, find something to focus on in Ethereum. Build something, join a community, help build this one, take a peek at the industry leading research coming from Ethereum researchers or just assess the fundamentals from an investment perspective for yourself. Then come back here and write about what you have found. Chances are you're not going to come back long-term bearish (if you do, come back here and convince me. I dare you!). Just like in 2018, another year or two of bear doldrums didn't matter. Back then, we had the builders and we had the tech. The same is still true today. In the long run, nothing else should matter.

So please, we need more educators around here. All this reactionary panic helps nobody. I understand the frustration, but if you came to crypto to make riches overnight, or if you trade on emotions, you're coming with the strategies which most people who got rekt in this ecosystem came with. ***Take this as a call to action. I'd love to see the next generation of u/DCInvestor and u/LogrisTheBard's come out of these tough times.***

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/the_swingman shares a wide range of collected thoughts</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ju6nrw/daily_general_discussion_april_08_2025/mm3fgc5/)

Some thoughts of late..

Reading the daily lately has been a source of anxiety more than a place of comfort. We need to change that. u/Tricky_Troll is on to something with the FUDbusting Ai tool. 

I just got through the [Bankless episode with Etherealize](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dmLzQIjXFCw) and it was good. Bankless gets its criticisms, rightfully so, but this episode was worth the watch. I found it helpful to hear from Etherealize (Vivek Raman and Danny Ryan), Danny brings a calmness and level headed approach to problem solving and Vivek, I think, has it in him to go toe to toe with Ethereum adversaries in the business world. They seem to have a plan in place to onboard real world companies/institutions (not just educate) as well as trying to wrangle US policy to favor a decentralized system such as Ethereum. I'd recommend giving that episode a watch, especially during these darker days. 

A lot of stuff happening in the world is completely out of my/our hands, the more I learn to let go of fear the better off I am. Lately, I've been giving off a more negative sentiment to my friends, family and loved ones - which I think they all understand the reasons why, its a general consensus in my tribe. I'm not just talking about Ethereum here, i'm talking about general worry for the world right now. However, I'm working on it. Detaching from investments helps, earning an income helps, working on health helps, jumping back into hobbies has been key, being kind to others really helps.

Ethereum has been my main ride or die for a long time. And if you want, you can surround yourself in an echo chamber across social media and maybe not even know it. To that effect, I do my very best to read the FUD and counter arguments against Ethereum, to see what else is out there in this space, to see if anything truly rivals what Ethereum is today and what it's future aims to be. 

The answers are what ultimately keep me here, holding ETH. There are some real concerns and the path to alleviate them is long but more than possible and likely doable. Not great for the short term and unfortunately "short term" is what jives the most within a risk asset for most investors. Ethereum is clearly becoming something bigger than what most of us can imagine, but it requires a long term mindset when it comes to ETH the asset.  

Speaking honestly and strictly from an investment performance perspective, I wish I had more peripheral vision to some other ideologies (almost all if not all of which I don't align with) within this space. 

I should have known that as simple, mostly useless and inevitably problematic BTC is, it would be the asset that would make sense for the simple tradfi folk to get behind and work best as an ETF. Most of the tradfi folk still dont know what it is but someone told them digital gold.. so, they bought it. 

For as long as I've been around, I should have seen the general mass appeal to Solana and realized the players running that game, understanding that SOL is just a new shiny toy that tries to mimic Ethereum but in a substantially centralized way and ran like a corporation and serves as a broken casino - of course it would make money, it was the ETH train that everyone missed. I actually bought BNB at ICO and let go of it some time ago from the CZ debacles and the SEC drama, but I should have realized Binance was the first massive international exchange that created its own "smart" chain to again be a centralized copy pasta of Ethereum, yet, still has a viable business behind it, which props up its BNB price. XRP and the rest are still mind bogglers so I wont comment on that... All/most of these other "projects" in this space are a hot pile that I wouldn't touch because imo they didn't/couldn't stand up to what Ethreum is now and will become, again, this is just me. 

So I guess I made some missteps in my crypto journey from an investment perspective.  But one thing I don't think I got wrong is my ideology. And in my honest opinion, Ethereum still stands tall there. 

As they say, don't get shaken out. I'm going to try to be like u/ethzenn and keep adding to the stack because I believe we'll see ETH rise again.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 shares some good news from the service they have been building</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ju6nrw/daily_general_discussion_april_08_2025/mm1w356/)

In the midst of all of this bad news, I got a tiny bit of good news today that I wanted to share. I guarantee this will _not_ make you nearly as happy as it made me, but maybe it can still take your mind off things for a minute.

The staking-as-a-service company I founded some time ago is [the best-performing node operator on Ethereum over the last month](https://x.com/SerenitaIO/status/1909621686678225314)! In the whole world! Competing with well-funded giants with dedicated DevOps and research teams like Coinbase, Kiln, P2P and so many others, this feels really amazing - a small staking shop outperforming all of them. And this was not achieved by only using the best-performing clients either. No compromises were made, quite the opposite. We developed and open-sourced our own validator client (Vero) from scratch that is able to use multiple clients at the same time, reducing risk and meaningfully contributing to client diversity on Ethereum: we run 5 different CL and 3 different EL client implementations on mainnet.

Anyway, that was the good news I got.
___

In other news, I'm looking forward to the Pectra upgrade early next month. Today I initiated a discussion with CL client teams to see how they are handling configuration files and fallback/default values since that caused such a huge mess on the Holesky testnet (on the EL side). All EL client teams are already looking at improving this, but CL clients may have needed this friendly little nudge from me to also take a careful look at how they handle these things. Failing early is preferable to using the wrong config values!

Hope the market conditions get better soon, have a good one lions!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Numerous_Ruin_4947 covers even more institutional adoption</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1jwiyn9/comment/mmk223t/)

**The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (BNY) will broadcast select fund accounting data to the Ethereum network**

New York, April 3, 2025 -- The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (“BNY”) (NYSE: BK), a global financial services company, today announced the expansion of its Digital Asset Platform with the launch of its Digital Asset Data Insights product, designed to securely and efficiently deliver both on- and off-chain data across blockchain networks. The launch underscores BNY’s ambition to serve an expanded, fundamental role in the lifecycle of tokenized assets.

With the BNY data on-chain capability, BNY will broadcast select fund accounting data to the Ethereum network, enabling further utility of public blockchains. Using smart contract technology, BNY will automate data consumption so that investors and on-chain participants may further capitalize on distributed ledger technology (DLT).

"Accessing transparent data is critical to our clients’ success in today's market,” said **Caroline Butler, Global Head of Digital Assets at BNY**. “Our platform’s support of Digital Asset Data Insights underscores our commitment to servicing the end-to-end asset lifecycle via distributed ledger technology, while maintaining data integrity from a trusted source.”

BlackRock will be the first client to leverage this product. BNY will broadcast fund accounting data for the BlackRock USD Institutional Digital Liquidity Fund (“BUIDL” or “the Fund”), its tokenized short-term U.S. Treasury fund. BNY currently acts as fund administrator and custodian of the Fund’s assets.

"BNY’s enablement of off-chain data insights to public blockchains is an unprecedented event and a significant milestone for the industry,” said **Robert Mitchnick, Head of Digital Assets at BlackRock.** “By enhancing data transparency and accessibility for our investors, BNY has set a new standard for digital asset innovation."

[BNY's Digital Asset Platform](https://www.bny.com/corporate/global/en/solutions/digital-assets.html) is a single, integrated platform for the safekeeping, servicing and management of digital assets. The platform leverages blockchain and tokenization technologies to create new opportunities to unlock asset utility, broaden distribution channels, manage risk and inform investment decisions as the market evolves.

[https://www.bny.com/corporate/global/en/about-us/newsroom/press-release/bny-expands-digital-asset-platform-with-launch-of-innovative-on-chain-offering.html](https://www.bny.com/corporate/global/en/about-us/newsroom/press-release/bny-expands-digital-asset-platform-with-launch-of-innovative-on-chain-offering.html)

</details>

