---
layout: markdown
date: 2025-12-12
episode: 133
guest: 
guest_topic: 
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pkkhsl/comment/ntn9ql0
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pkkhsl/comment/ntlpv8b/)

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> Ethereum

[u/https://reddit.com/user/johnnydappeth/](https://reddit.com/u/https://reddit.com/user/johnnydappeth/)

> $3,262

[u/the-A-word](https://reddit.com/u/the-A-word)

> 0.035


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pfhy31/comment/nsnrmmk/)

*Midtown to suburbs,*

*One town with bridges and birds,*

*Blockchain full of verbs.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/trillionSdollarstech</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pjq4km/comment/ntfqfyn/)

Paul Brody trolling:

> Hey @l2beat now that Solana is accessible via @base with their new bridge can you start tracking them in your Layer 3 metrics?

<https://x.com/i/status/1998709708987969658>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/edmundedgar simplifies what Fusaka really means for most of us</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pcwf5g/daily_general_discussion_december_03_2025/ns5nyma/)

The most important thing is Data Availability Sampling. This allows you to publish data and only have the fact that you published it verified by a subset of validators, not all of them. This matters a lot for scaling because it means the total capacity of the chain will no longer be bottlenecked by how much data you can download on a single home internet line. It won't have much of an immediate effect because the thing that it's scaling (blobs) weren't at capacity right before the fork, but for the long term it's a really big deal. It starts as a fairly small capacity increase but then we can start dialing some knobs to grow the capacity really massive.

The thing the most immediately relevant to regular users is the `secp256r1` precompile. Most signatures in the cryptocurrency world use `secp256k1` which is what was used in Bitcoin, and that's what's mostly used in Ethereum. But browsers and smartphones and other things that don't have ancestry in Bitcoin typically use `secp256r1`. This will help with stuff like controlling wallets with passkeys and lots of other things that need integration with things that normie non-crypto people use.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HauntedJockStrap88 sees parallels to beavers as currency</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1penica/daily_general_discussion_december_05_2025/nsf9541/)

I read about how during American westward expansion in the early colonial days beaver pelts acted as hard currency on the American frontier. Fur trappers would trade amongst themselves and the native Americans in “Made-Beavers” which was the unit of account for bartering on the frontier. You could therefore price other pelts like otters in made beavers, (1 otter = x amount of made beavers) survival supplies and food in made-beavers, etc. 

The beaver pelts while large in quantity were of course not limitless and the fur trade was disastrous to the supply of the critters, unfortunately. But still, the Beaver supply is effectively self replicating, but capped, and predictable in how they replicated and how much they could. 

The pelts themselves were prized as the commodity of the day. Europe had already hunted their native beaver populations to the brink so the discovery of the “boundless” quantity of beaver on the American frontier created a Beaver boom back in Europe, where suddenly the demand for beaver fur increased dramatically. 

So anyway, it got me thinking, of course. Digital Made-Beavers, anyone? 🦫 

I partially kid, but I do like the parallels. And the “Frontier” imagery in relation to ETH. 

The beautiful part to me of this somewhat harrowing piece of human history (sorry critters) is the idea that these pelts were able to facilitate trade between different cultures. Throughout human history we have used gold to do the same, but in certain places, in certain times, and of course where it was convenient and obvious to do so- we have substituted out that gold as the unit of account for other things. 

I think one of the major ideas of crypto, at least the SoV assets like ETH and BTC, is to find a way to replicate this same idea without the obvious downsides. To *design* a commodity, that can be the unit of account in the digital age. Beaver pelts as hard currency doesn’t work over the long term. When the demand outstrips the supply the beaver pelts become more lucrative but there’s no mechanism to stop people from hunting them to near extinction to satisfy that demand and economic incentive. Furthermore on the other side, while pelts are useful for keeping warm a large part of the demand for them stemmed from a far more squishy and unpredictable need- *fashion*. Of course we cannot have a unit of account based around something that may just change with the seasons. 

Anyway, cheers. Apologies if anyone has already done the Made-Beavers comparison it’s just something I saw that made me think of ETH. I could also just be terminally ETH-brained.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth covers the big beef between Solana and Base</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1penica/daily_general_discussion_december_05_2025/nshqk7j/)

One day closer to Solana becoming the memecoin L3 of Base and Ethereum.

X is filled of Solana figures mad that Base is vampire attacking them and did not reach out first to talk with the Solana Foundation ... 

Max Resnick is having a meltdown. Jesse politely and nicely responds while stabbing frantically.

What a day.

Edit: Context...

Base has built a two way bridge to Solana. It went live two days ago.
Solana tweets "grow the pie" 2 days ago but today Toly and others leaders of Solana are especially mad and the tweet has been deleted.

<https://x.com/vibhu/status/1996682461724791206>

<https://x.com/DegenerateNews/status/1996991763492311074>

Cannot see the numbers but It looks like liquidity is moving net to Base and Solana expected something else to happen. 

Base has also a lot of leeway to offer massively better experience with all the blob space that they will effectively get.

Ethereum mainnet is like an arms dealer right now selling ammunition to Base... And killing alt L1s for sport.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nick_badlands observes the Solana vs Base beef and gets back to basics</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1penica/daily_general_discussion_december_05_2025/nsi1bfu/)

Great seeing the Solana vampire attack stuff in the comments and on Twitter etc.  For those asking what is going on, same thing as every other so called ETH killer, they either bend the knee and become scaling for Ethereum or they become a ghost chain.  

This time it seems people are moaning about memecoins moving from Solana to Base.  Now, personally, I don't give a shit about memecoins.  They can live on whatever chain they want and are an unfortunate part of open source crypto software for degens to waste their money on.

The positive thing about open source is that people get to try out Ethereum's core code and they can tweak it however they want.  This is great for Eth as they get to prove if changes work or fail.  We're getting to see what happens when anyone can launch their own token and well if you thought these memecoins are actually worth anything in the long-term, well, I'm sorry I don't think you understand what this technology is really about.

Solana has actually tested out more about the whole open source Ethereum experiment than any other chain I've seen.  Credit where it is due.  They have proven that low cost implementation of tokens and fast block times (when it works) are something the market values.  This is cool for Ethereum as well, scaling and reducing costs has been in Ethereum's long term plan for a long while.

I've been into crypto for over a decade now.  There are very few actual new things that have launched in this time, pretty much everything has been a copy of about 3 new ideas that people have tweaked to their own parameters.  These are my three:

* Bitcoin - First proved that a decentralised currency was a thing that could exist running on a blockchain.  We've come from this being something on obscure internet forums to the point where all the major financial institutions are adopting.  Amazing.
* Ethereum - First proved that you could build on what Bitcoin had established and run code on a decentralised blockchain and as well as being a currency, it could be something that powers applications.
* Chainlink - i.e. Oracles and another layer that can operate above both Ethereum and Bitcoin and any other chain.  Ethereum proved that running applications was a powerful capability but hooking that up to real world data and data from other blockchains kicks that up another level.

Everything else has been a copy of one of the above but just with tweaked parameters.  I'm pretty sure that all of the above are going to be the market leaders for sometime.  There have been and will be many copies of the above that will garner attention and yet fade into the background.

Has anything truly new surfaced yet and anyone disagree with my three "new" things?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog weighs in on the big bug which is a critical warning about the importance of client diversity and u/rhythm_of_eth tells us the important thing all home stakers should know</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pfhy31/daily_general_discussion_december_06_2025/nskjjfr/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

PREFACE: I forgot to mention a very crucial part I wanted to write. Two commentators fixed this. Please also read the comments to make sure you understand the current situation as well.

This is connected to another post here about 25% of the validators dropping off and the explanation of it. I wanted to focus on the incident itself and what it means for Ethereum, from my point of view at least.

2 days ago Prysm, an Ethereum consensus client, had a bug and stopped advancing the chain. This means all validators using the Prysm client could not do their duties anymore. Luckily, Prysm is not a Supermajority client so we only lost about 23% of validators. This is a large portion, but it did not influence the Ethereum in any significant way. There were more missed blocks than usual, so some transactions took longer to include, but throughput and security was unchanged. It was such a nothingburger that even many people in this sub do not know about the incident. 

If a larger portion of the network would have run on Prysm, things could have gotten worse pretty fast. Over 33% drop off the chain would stop finalizing which reduces the security to the level of what Bitcoin offers, meaning there are no final blocks, things could be reordered pretty far back without any repercussions. This also would not be a big deal, we had such an incidence once before for a few minutes. People using the chain did not really notice. If more than 66% of the validators would have dropped off the chain would have stopped working by any meaningful measure. No more chugging along nicely. Ethereum would most probably have lost its perfect uptime because of a bug in a single client. 

If this Bug would have happened about 3 years ago Ethereum would probably have been offline. Prysm had over 66% market share back then. Perfect uptime would have been lost. We were very lucky that such a bug did not happen back then. That the bug was a nothingburger today is only thanks to the very hard work of many Ethereum community members, most notably in my view are u/superphiz for pushing for client diversity and u/hanniabu for visualizing it with clientdiversity.org. Obviously I forget many other people helping from the ethstaker crew to push for more client diversity. It was a time of heated debate among validators but it was totally worth it.

If any other chain has a bug in their client it will be offline as there is most of the time only one or maybe two clients. Things like this is what makes Ethereum unique.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pfhy31/daily_general_discussion_december_06_2025/nskkjkx/)

[u/rhythm_of_eth](https://reddit.com/u/rhythm_of_eth):

> If a larger portion of the network would have run on Prysm, things could have gotten worse pretty fast

* or if a bug happened on a super majority client 

Reminder to everyone reading this, that Lighthouse has almost 50% share right now. It would not fully impair Ethereum but we should strive to migrate those to minority clients until no client has more than 33% share.

That would be a considerable bump in security. Having very spread out client shares allows for a tiny bit more of aggressive pushing of development deadlines! 

Client Diversity makes Ethereum more competitive and accelerates its roadmap.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/somedaysitsdark starts a discussion about tracking/fingerprinting validator software</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pgazhx/daily_general_discussion_december_07_2025/nsttcvj/)

The ability to spoof the identity of what web browser you use, or what operating system, or your mac address etc. has long been a minor issue for technology. It's a minor issue because most people aren't even aware of it and few mess with it. 

There were some small waves made when people found out that websites would apply price discrimination depending on your machine fingerprint, but it's still not a well known thing.

When the specs for Ethereum clients were written, there were no provisions for clients identifying themselves (except optionally in block proposal graffiti), after all they are all supposed to behave the same way, and even if they did have a field for reporting client ID's, they could be spoofed.

Fingerprinting validator clients is not an exact science. The best way we know who is running what is when clients have a bug like Prysm did. That's not uh ideal though.

Unlike web browsers, or operating systems etc, Ethereum clients are uniquely positioned with the tools to cryptographically prove what client they are running in a way that can't be spoofed. I used to think that it wasn't worth the code complexity, but nowadays I think I have changed teams.

I think it might be worth an EIP.

Edit: I've been focused too much on preventing spoofing, and I'm not really sure spoofing is an actual problem and it's fucking tough to prevent. I don't know of any good reasons anyone involved with POS would be spoofing anyway- it's counterintuitive to staking. I'd love to be able to prevent it because I hate relying on trust, but honestly, I would be happy with a formalized way for clients to self identify even if it isn't totally spoof proof.

[This thread](https://ethresear.ch/t/allowing-validators-to-provide-client-information-privately-a-project-by-nethermind-research-and-nethermind-core/18527) does a nice job discussing the limitations of client fingerprinting and some paths forward! I think it is pretty wild that operators large and small make client choices using this data.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 keeps us in the loop for Ethereum's upcoming upgrades from BPO forks to Glamsterdam</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ph4xqo/daily_general_discussion_december_08_2025/nsxkzlc/)

The Fusaka network upgrade shipped last week on mainnet with only very minor issues. A great success considering the issues we faced around the previous network upgrade, Pectra. (No issues on mainnet, but on both big testnets ahead of the mainnet launch)

The BPO1 (a Blob Parameter Only fork) goes live tomorrow, increasing the targeted number of blobs from 6 to 10 (a 66% increase!).

Further ahead of us lies the next network upgrade, Glamsterdam (Gloas + Amsterdam), with ePBS (EIP-7732) as the CL headliner and BAL (EIP-7928) as the EL headliner. A lot of work has already been done on this, and even more remains.

A bit of contention has come up lately around ePBS, specifically around the trustless payments part of it. Some well known players in the builder ecosystem believe this part significantly hampers efficiency and will not be used much in practice. While this feedback is coming late in the process, at least it's coming and should be taken into consideration. ePBS is a huge change and it's hard for anyone to fully understand its implications.

I'm not sure where I personally stand on this yet, I just watched the recording yesterday and need to review the pros and cons in more detail. For now my impression is that there's a bit of a disconnect between researchers and the real world and this EIP needs (even) more refinement.

For those interested in the topic, I'd recommend watching the [recording](https://youtu.be/LkfmeBuQeqU?t=1643) from Friday's breakout call. The next breakout call will happen on December 19th.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/InsuranceGuyQuestion talks bigger picture and the motivation behind their ETH thesis</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ph4xqo/daily_general_discussion_december_08_2025/nswnh0u/)

We all make decisions with investing for the ultimate goal of early freedom. Looking back, you always wonder if you made the right choice or are actually going to make it. All of it can feel like a gamble during the process until it happens.

I go back and read the thesis for ETH. Seeing it being played out in real time reminds me how much progress has been made and how close we might be to having that eurka moment of being right. It's really all about conviction and seeing through with that decision. Even though my freedom number is far far away. I truly believe ETH is the best shot to early freedom.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Fheredin talks about Macro but it's not looking too good</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1ph4xqo/daily_general_discussion_december_08_2025/nsyxcxl/)

As I generally feel unqualified to talk crypto, allow me to talk some shop with some macro. 

Currently, here in the United States, [food service is struggling with sales](https://www.foodbusinessnews.net/articles/29367-foodservice-traffic-continues-to-fall-as-consumers-cut-costs), [home prices are starting to fall](https://www.fastcompany.com/91337938/housing-market-zillow-first-annual-u-s-home-price-drop-since-2011), and [cinema ticket sales look to end the year down about 5% YoY.](https://www.boxofficemojo.com/year/)

I don't think that anyone is surprised that things like food service and cinema ticket sales are down because we just had a very potent inflationary pulse and these are highly elastic markets which exist entirely based off disposable income. Housing prices falling, however, means that this isn't the whole story. Likewise, the tariff scare earlier this year doesn't tell the full story. Food service may be affected by tariffs, but cinema and housing certainly aren't. 

My interpretation is that these numbers say we are already in a deep recession. Best guess? It probably started in the neighborhood of Q2 this year. 

*(Reminder: I predicted early this year that the Fed's QT from 2022 and 2023 would play out as a deflationary spike in Q2 2025. I still think this case is mostly right. One of the limits of the rational actors market assumption is that you have to assume people always correctly interpret data. If you are conditioned to expect inflation and see a business account with a decreasing account balance, you are not going to intuitively understand that the dollar is deflating and that the true value in the account is mostly unchanged; your instinctive reaction is to raise prices. When a bunch of people do that, it seems to confirm the assumption of inflation. Unfortunately, that is a precisely incorrect reaction; it puts you further away from supply and demand equilibrium and much further into oversupply/ underdemand.)*

If you can't tell where this is going, at the macro level, the forces which expose industries like food service and cinema to downward forces are the same forces which expose crypto to downward pressure; retail is short of cash and simply can't buy crypto at high prices. It's fair to guess that as soon as TradFi internalizes the recession, they will go risk-averse. No degree of TA psychological warfare from whales can change the fact that no one is interested in buying at high prices, hence the price stalls.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/pa7x1 is bullish on the ETH/BTC ratio</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1piv1ac/daily_general_discussion_december_10_2025/ntbt4hj/)

It's too early to tell but we might be seeing the first innings...

2 years ago https://reddit.com/r/ethfinance/comments/18smom7/daily_general_discussion_december_28_2023/kfb96gp/


> And now my end of year prediction for Ray.
> 
> I think Ray will go for the slay in the second half of the coming Bitcoin halving (i.e. starting in late 2025 until the next halving).
> 
> The bitcoin halvings have acted as a cyclical pattern during Bitcoin's life. Initially was simply a matter of causing a supply shock, suddenly on a given day the amount of bitcoin that enters the market to be sold is cut in half. Initially miners need to sell more of it, lowering their margins or tapping into reserves which causes a dip, then as reserves go thin and the new steady-state of half the amount of bitcoin entering the market becomes normal and given the same buying pressure in fiat terms it tends to cause a price raise.
> 
> Now a new effect is taking place. The miners are themselves playing the halving cycle. There are a few miners publicly listed so we can see what they are doing (e.g. MARA). During the last couple of years (2021 and 2022) miners have gone to the equity and debt markets to raise capital very significantly. That is, instead of selling Bitcoin at these prices or going bankrupt because they can't cover their costs at bear market prices, they finance their operations through stock and debt issuance. So they get indebted during bear markets and they will have to recoup during bull markets.
> 
> What I think will happen is that when Bitcoin starts to get frothy again due to halving + ETF. They will start unloading BTC against the bull-market buyers. This will be the self-fulfilling cause of the bear market. At some point they will have to unload heavily all Bitcoin they have been accumulating during 2023 and 2024. They will unload heavily in 2025 and 2026.
> 
> Unlike Bitcoin, ETH won't have those forced sellers. And although it's unlikely that it can resist the bear market on its own yet, I think it's very possible that it will show a very surprising resilience. This may cause a flight to quality and ETH becomes the safe-haven during the next bear market. Coupled with the force selling of BTC miners and we may have a nice set-up for the flippening.
> 
> Longer term ETH should decouple from the halving cycles. As it becomes a bigger asset in market cap the effects of Bitcoin's halving dynamics will have less of an impact.
>

</details>
