---
layout: markdown
date: 2026-01-09
episode: 134
guest: 
guest_topic: "Professors Roundtable: Blockchain and Belief"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/ZWmRu0OKM3
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q80eol/comment/nyjsn48/)

[u/DayTraderBiH](https://reddit.com/u/DayTraderBiH)

> Ethereum!

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0343

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> $3,114


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q3i656/comment/nxolgqo/)

*A few to annoy,*

*Venezuela viceroy,*

*Oil and gas enjoy.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/eviljordan</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q2mteo/comment/nxica28/)

I made a transaction on mainnet swapping ETH -> USDC and, since then, have received over 60 phishing transactions of minuscule amounts of USDC. I almost have 30 cents worth collected now!! Thanks, scammers! It's free real estate!! 🤑🤑🤑

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nudelsalat3000 asks why people consider ETH to be competing against BTC and gets great responses from eth10kisFUD, HauntedJockStrap88, and edmundedgar</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pyef1q/daily_general_discussion_december_29_2025/nwjq3up/)

[u/nudelsalat3000](https://reddit.com/u/nudelsalat3000):

Can someone explain me what is the strategy with price where ultimately you always compete against bitcoin? I learned we don't talk about direct dollar value but always the relation to btc price. So far so good, understood.

Like I also understand value building, however it seem price building is nonexistent. Bitcoin uses tricks like MicroStrategy to collect investors, which then attracts new investors and they get a flywheel effect. I also learned that with liquidity farming it was an approach to use such flywheel effect.

However I also saw that Ethereum there is so much building that everyone builds their own tokennomis on L2 and all L2 compete, given there is no direct link, but always L2=>L1=>L2. So "fragmented economy" which means splitted interests. Doesn't sound game theory stable, if you can push your own L2 token instead of eth, it it's more incentivesed.

Staking also isn't that sexy, if the price is not that attractive or at least the outlook. Not sure about other players besides bitcoin, solana is sometimes mentioned but seems not much else to be able to compete at a global level.

Is there some strategy ongoing, or is this one of those forbidden knowledge things like "we don't talk about price"?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pyef1q/comment/nwjujh4/)

[u/eth10kisFUD](https://reddit.com/u/eth10kisFUD):


ETH is the most misunderstood asset in the market currently, similar to where Bitcoin was in 2015.

Bitcoin literally only does one thing and had simple mental crutches such as "fixed supply" to make people understand the concept better, yet it still took many years for the market to grasp it. 

If you are a Bitcoin expert you know that its economic security is running out and it won't stay the most important crypto for long.

Ethereum is fundamentally more complex and takes more time to understand for many, but it is the most secure crypto asset and the natural successor to Bitcoin once Ethereum has entered [maintenance mode](https://leanroadmap.org/) and Bitcoin runs out of economic security in the next couple years.

The "Forbidden knowledge" in the crypto industry is that Ethereum is the only contender in the race to become the global crypto SoV asset. The only missing piece is time.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pyef1q/comment/nwk4cjs/)

[u/HauntedJockStrap88](https://reddit.com/u/HauntedJockStrap88):

The strategy is ultimately “as Ethereum the network usage increases the value of ETH goes up” 

Upgrades to the network are done to to increase usage, how attractive it is to use the network. 

*Adoption* is the strategy. 

ETH’s competitive advantage over the entire crypto ecosystem is that it is the native token of the largest and most useful ecosystem. (Currently)

The thesis for the growth in price of ETH is tied inextricably to the growth of Ethereum. Bulls believe that Ethereum will be the network that ultimately settles value in the next iteration of global finance. The scale of adoption would then force ETH to be money. You’re paying transaction fees in ETH. You’re paid staking yields in ETH. You’re extremely likely to take out loans putting up ETH as collateral. When Ethereum gets adopted ETH *is* money in that system, and therefore everyone will want some. You get the monetary asset story of BTC (low/negligible inflation, divisibility, portability, non-fungibility, etc etc) *with* all the actual usage of a smart-contract L1 platform. This is the ETH bull case.

BTC, conversely, increases in value historically despite the fact that its network is mostly useless and bare of any activity. It’s all narrative. Narratives are powerful things, and it is certainly possible that the BTC story *continues* to merge with reality. Gold is money because it’s gold. The properties of gold make it suitable as money more than most things, but there are many other commodities out there that *could’ve* been money like gold but aren’t. Because most people don’t think of those other commodities as money (simply) There is thousands of years of precedent that has ingrained gold as money. Perhaps like gold the snowball is already rolling unstoppably down the hill with BTC? It has already reached escape velocity in the public perception of it and eventually it will be held in the same esteem as gold (or perhaps moreso) by everyone. BTC bulls don’t talk about *usage*, they simply talk about market fundamentals and how *more people are buying BTC as an investment*. The Ethereum network usage is a red herring, the Ethereum network upgrades are unnecessary risk, blockchain serves no purpose outside of Bitcoin. Immaculately conceived, ossified, and marching upwards as more and more people “buy BTC at the price they deserve”. This is BTC’s bull case. 

Both these assets have very well defined supply schedules with little expected supply inflation expected going forward. Therefore, in a supply/demand paradigm to determine price, you only really need to consider *demand*. I laid out above the strategies both are employing to increase demand over time.


---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pyef1q/comment/nwn2t1c/)

[u/edmundedgar](https://reddit.com/u/edmundedgar):

> I learned we don't talk about direct dollar value but always the relation to btc price. So far so good, understood.

This is an old r/ethfinance brainworm dating back to the days when people thought BTC and ETH were competing for the same network effect. They thought that the price was a key part of being the main network, and when the ETH price exceeded the BTC price that would drive a load of users from BTC to ETH, which would in turn increase the ETH price and decrease the BTC price. So they tracked it kind of religiously.

But it turned out that Ethereum got a bigger network than BTC in terms of basically everything Ethereum users think is important, and that didn't cause the price to flip because BTC and ETH are used for different things. But during the period before people knew this they got into a load of pissing matches with Bitcoin users and care a lot about winning on this otherwise unimportant metric, so they still talk about it a lot.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>We're sad to see u/lawfultots is stepping down as mod. Thank you for your service</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q0x7gd/comment/nx4r532/)

I've decided to step down as mod. I started a new job a few months back and it doesn't leave me much time to hang out on reddit, and I don't see that changing this year.

Appreciate you all, and have a great 2026!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Flashy-Butterfly6310 asks whether ETH price is poised to be low and receives a frosty explanation of gas fees. u/epic_trader offers specific examples and a longer discussion takes place</summary>
[View on Reddit →]()

[u/Flashy-Butterfly6310](https://reddit.com/u/Flashy-Butterfly6310):

Discussion:

**Is ETH price poised to be low, since a low price incentivizes its usage?**

(Not trolling, I'm a huge Ethereum Believer, I just want to have - yet another - discussion about this topic).

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pyef1q/daily_general_discussion_december_29_2025/nwll6q1/)

[u/epic_trader](https://reddit.com/u/epic_trader):

No, the price to use Ethereum is not related to the price of ETH.

The number of transactions on L1 and L2 has only gone up, forever, even while the price also has gone up. If a lower price of ETH correlated with more transactions, the number of transactions across Ethereum shouldn't be at all time high right now. 

Here's an ETH transfer from 1 minute ago when the price of ETH was $2,932. The transaction fee was $0.005

<https://etherscan.io/tx/0x5aad7a6e59d7b1286bd1d841dfffbd0783f9c87f139046c08c19a511e6dd94de>

Here's an ETH transfer July this year when the price of ETH was $2,932. The transaction fee was $0.14

<https://etherscan.io/tx/0x0275dc911c65225fc049ee9e1bd53731ccd02a8876418c4888a7d29b494efdb9>

Here's an ETH transfer from February this year when the price of ETH was $2,932. The transaction fee was $0.62

<https://etherscan.io/tx/0x3a0c0267913f98c559ac51641f03b111ffba6360d6722b700bbf67f01f4dea06>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HauntedJockStrap88 offers fun hot takes for 2026 and u/LogrisTheBard chimes in</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pza9mw/comment/nwr9p8f/)

[u/HauntedJockStrap88](https://reddit.com/u/HauntedJockStrap88):

Fun Hot? takes for 2026:

ETH ecosystem TVL crosses 1T

Stablecoin Mkcap triples

The 4 year cycle dies. 

Tom Lee’s Bitmine trades over $100/share. 

BTC and ETH set ATHs. 

Some important Tradfi guy actually says the word “Ethereum” instead of “blockchain” or “crypto” (impossible, I know)

Vitalik finally says we deserve it (even more impossible)

A crypto app goes viral in the US

An Ethereum upgrade is covered by a CNBC host.

Clarity act passes

A major crypto figure is invited to ring the bell at the NYSE for the *first* evening session of 23/5 trading in the US.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pza9mw/daily_general_discussion_december_30_2025/nwrkfuz/)

[u/LogrisTheBard](https://reddit.com/u/LogrisTheBard):

Sounds like you're expecting a more fun year than me.

I'll be happy if we reach $500B stablecoins and we even hold $3k all year.

Crypto is more likely to be used in the backend by unknowing participants than have a viral app ever. Even if you count things like Polymarket, most people just view it. Far fewer actually set up a wallet and participate.

I do think some version of the clarity act is more likely than not to pass but if it passes in July it will still take more than the rest of 2026 to get most things off the ground.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LifeReboot__ asks about investor analysis frameworks with detailed responses from whisperedstate and HauntedJockStrap88</summary>

[u/LifeReboot__](https://reddit.com/u/LifeReboot__):

*\[comment deleted\]*

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pza9mw/daily_general_discussion_december_30_2025/nwqpv3b/)

[u/whisperedstate](https://reddit.com/u/whisperedstate):

I had formulated a thesis when I bought a long time ago, and then I re-evaluate periodically to see if that thesis is still on track. Basically, my first internal thesis milestone is reaching 1T in mcap (adjusted for inflation). To me, that's the first milestone to Ethereum becoming global financial infrastructure, because it says implicitly that Ethereum is highly valued as an asset and a network. So I would sell some there. 

The next milestones for me are more based on utility than value, i.e. the first truly mainstream application on Ethereum. I take the same approach I took with Tesla when I invested in the early 2010s. Basically, I said I'd sell when I see Tesla's every day while driving. To me, these kind of usage milestones are easy ways of gauging market penetration for tech plays / growth assets. So I would sell some more if Ethereum achieved a dapp that was truly mainstream. Stablecoins are pretty close, but not quite there. If major banks were using stablecoins in their backend, then I might consider that a mainstream dapp. Or if Ethereum enabled 24/5 or 24/7 equities trading at scale, that would also quality. Something like that.

For me to sell and capitulate (thesis never achieved) it's a time-based milestone. If it's been a decade since my initial investment, and progress is obviously not happening as I expected it (network metrics are down, tech progress has stalled, crypto interest has waned, utlity is not there, social in-fighting, etc.) then I cut my losses and sell. A really good real-world example of a network/ecosystem that has failed in this way is Cosmos or Polkadot. If Ethereum starts looking like that, run for the hills.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pza9mw/daily_general_discussion_december_30_2025/nwr1j10/)

[u/HauntedJockStrap88](https://reddit.com/u/HauntedJockStrap88):

I agree with your metrics. When to sell is as much a lifestyle decision as it is one to make based on metrics imo. Personally I’m not here for short term financial goals, but once some medium term/long term goals are achieved on paper I’ll be selling some to lock that in no matter how bullish I am. The metrics are guiding me that I’m still in the right place, but when it’s time to leave is personal, partly. 

As far as I’m concerned something like TVL should continue to climb this year with the expected adoption from tradfi. A major reversal in that trend outside of a tradfi black swan event would have me reevaluating. I believe this is the year. 

I liked the other comment as well that a bullish outcome sell signal will be when you see mainstream adoption of Ethereum in your day to day life. Like if my tech-illiterate father is paying for coffee with stablecoins, or my crypto hater friends have Aave on their phones, etc etc. We all invested in this partly because we believed *that* would be the outcome. Seeing market penetration of Ethereum like that would indicate to me that I’ve captured a lot of the upside in at least the medium term.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/AGI-44 considers what might make Ethereum shine</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q05kbc/comment/nww0wp1/)

It might be that either bitcoin needs to collapse or Ethereum needs to ossify as well, before we see any meaningful price change. Forever crab til the protocol is good enough and now people can focus solely on L2's and better UX / merchant integration.

It would make sense. Why should Ethereum become more valuable than it already is?

It's eternal crab vs infinite human stupidity. 

Just how long is it going to take for the massas to understand bitcoin is fundamentally flawed? Most never will, they're sheep and won't care or bother to understand. They just want things that work and don't care about how. 

I'm keeping my popcorn ready for around the next halving. Sooner or later, it's game over and a massive wave of change will come. People will cry, why did no one warn us? I've been lied to!! See?! Can't trust technology, it *always* fails eventually! This is why we have banks and governments to protect ourselves from our own stupidity. 

That's when Ethereum will shine. Or perish, under the global wave of distrust towards all crypto, all being lumped together as if it's all the same thing that can't be trusted anymore. 

Will Ethereum survive? Time will tell. 

What I think is more likely, and better for all of us, is another long painfully slow bear market with no violent crashes, just slow steady down. So that that bitcoin issue can resolve itself in a less volatile way. Ethereum will survive all bear markets, it does not rely on miners needing to pay *huge* electricity billls. 

Bear markets is where truth surfaces and old waste gets abandoned. Bull markets are full of, well.. bull shit.

See you all in 2026.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Twelvemeatballs shares their experience of DePIN day</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q0x7gd/comment/nx5nbq2/)

A bit belated because it got trapped by Reddit filters but my final Devconnect article is up! 

[I went to DePIN day and now I want to monetize my vacuum cleaner](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1pzr3or/i_went_to_depin_day_and_now_i_want_to_monetize_my/) is my typical oversharing style of overview, you have been warned.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard considers portfolio positioning for 2026</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q2mteo/comment/nxj7ie2/)

Thinking about what's coming this year and how to position my portfolio. 

1. I give it above even odds that the US gov shuts down again which will have a negative impact on markets eventually if it drags on like it did last year.
2. The US has turned on the money printer again and the debt is parabolic at this point so I am expecting a return of inflation. This probably means I should be holding more Euros and maybe precious metals but...
3. There are dozens of mines coming online in 2026 and selling covered puts on precious metals. I don't see how the parabolic rise in silver/gold this year can sustain all of this new supply hitting the markets. So maybe not holding precious metals past Q1 or Q2 of this year. These mines take awhile to come online but a lot of gold mines started setup in Q3 of 2025 so we should start to see that extra supply this year. This implies selling precious metals and back to euros if I want a stablecoin past Q1 or maybe Q2 of this year. I made about 10% on a currency trade last year, seems like I'll be setting up something similar again this year.
4. I predict the continuation of the rearmament of Europe. Trump's actions last year cemented an increased expense from Europe on defense and you can be sure his recent rhetoric on Greenland and events in Venezuela today only further than outcome. I'm up almost 100% in 2025 on EUAD and am comfy holding that for another 50% gain over the next 4 years.
5. I'm bullish tokenization but it looks to me like Defi is going to fail to seize the market share so I'm looking at picking up some Robinhood/Coinbase when their product offerings start to show sizable adoption on chain. Something to watch rather than act on for now. I obviously should have bought Canton on the narrative when I heard the news but I sat on my hands instead. I'll keep looking for other ways to express this thesis but for now I'm just watching adoption of RWA platforms like Ondo and Tradfi to buy based on whatever fundamental signals I can nab.
6. I think we'll see an AI dip sometime this year. If you look at how much these companies have to make from AI to recoup their capital outlays you come to some pretty unlikely answers which says to me we're going to see a .com style repricing of these efforts in the next few years but I'll be prepared for it going into Q3. DeAI has some amazing tech but I haven't encountered any protocols that have actual customers. There's a systemic failure of customer outreach for that sector (just like Defi). Until we change how we do outreach I only see the market caps for that sector continuing to struggle. That's a long topic though.
7. I'll happily pick up more ETH in the low $2k range because I give it good odds we would at least revisit $3k within 4 years or if we see both a drawdown in exchange reserves and an elastic response of price to that drawdown. We saw that briefly with dats in July/August but the time to exit was when this elasticity broke. Outside of that if the market structure bill passes and comes out well then I'll probably buy some back for a narrative trade. Otherwise I have enough and am happy farming.

In aggregate I expect this year to be volatile and for there to be massive unrest in the US from continuing layoffs, the cut of ACA subsidies, unchecked executive power, and the world alienating the US on everything from travel to booze in response to aggressive behavior on the international stage.

What other thesis do you all have for this year and how are you investing for that?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Substantial_Hurry_25 shares a Cypherpunk-adjacent talk by Cory Doctorow from C9C3 and u/shiftli adds APT Down and Agentic ProbLLMs to our curated playlist.</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q3i656/comment/nxmfk3z/)

[u/Substantial_Hurry_25](https://reddit.com/u/Substantial_Hurry_25):

Good listen for a bit of Cypherpunk cross over here: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39jsstmmUUs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=39jsstmmUUs)

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q3i656/comment/nxp0x0w/)

[u/shiftli](https://reddit.com/u/shiftli):

I've not yet made it far into my 39c3 playlist, and most of the talks are in german anyway, but I found ["APT Down and the mystery of the burning data centers"](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-apt-down-and-the-mystery-of-the-burning-data-centers) interesting!

---

Also, if you use AI agents you should watch ["Agentic ProbLLMs: Exploiting AI Computer-Use and Coding Agents"](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-agentic-probllms-exploiting-ai-computer-use-and-coding-agents) (and then ask chatgpt how to set up a sandbox for your agents)!


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/NextLevelFantasy shares clear instructions for the Octant epoch 10 allocation</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q5anbq/comment/ny2ruva/)

Octant epoch 10 allocation window is officially open!

<https://octant.app/> - If you have $GLM locked make sure to donate (or claim) ETH rewards at some point in the next 2 weeks. 

On <https://octant.app/home> make sure your uniqueness score is at least 15 to get full matching. If it isn't you can update your passport score to prove you're a unique human <https://support.passport.xyz/passport-knowledge-base>

<https://x.com/OctantApp/status/2008614595741806678> - Thread with info on the 24 projects 

<https://docs.octant.app/> - Octant revolves around allocating the yield generated with the 100k ETH they have staked. It is by far the most sustainable public goods funding platform on Ethereum and you can have an incredibly overweight say in what to fund by locking GLM and taking part. Can see the matching leverage in previous epochs here <https://octant.app/metrics>.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Kristkind is glad to see that the Morgan Stanley ETF plans now include Ethereum</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q67iu2/comment/ny6r6i2/)

So I guess Ethereum people can spit out that crazy pill from yesterday

<https://www.theblock.co/post/384603/morgan-stanley-spot-ethereum-etf>

Perhaps the Ethereum guy at Morgan Stanley couldn't be bothered to work overtime around Christmas and New Year.

</details>
