---
layout: markdown
date: 2026-01-30
episode: 138
guest: Mac Budkowski
guest_topic: "Crypto GTM Guide"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/6A8zXUP93v
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G3g5sNQzHqc
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qqxc92/comment/o2k295l/)

[u/epic_trader](https://reddit.com/u/epic_trader)

> Ethereum

[u/discipleofvitalik](https://reddit.com/u/discipleofvitalik)

> $2,720

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> 0.0330


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qn7wd5/comment/o1vrcvw/)

*Smarter engagements,*

*Coordinate the agents,*

*Through AI payments.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ethereal News: u/abcoathup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qqxc92/comment/o2lh8ev/)

**Ethereal news weekly #9**

* Fidelity Investments FIDD stablecoin 
* TheDAO Security Fund 
* Hegotá upgrade headliner proposals

[https://ethereal.news/ethereal-news-weekly-9/](https://ethereal.news/ethereal-news-weekly-9/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/Tricky_Troll</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qp37r8/comment/o2bd647/)

[u/xCreampye69x](https://reddit.com/u/xCreampye69x): anyone have a good prediction for february?


[u/Tricky_Troll](https://reddit.com/u/Tricky_Troll): February will have 28 days. Allocate your portfolio accordingly.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/alexiskef reports on the use of AI agents to detect smart contract exploits</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qjmmhb/daily_general_discussion_january_22_2026/o10lb7o/)

[AI agents find $4.6M in blockchain smart contract exploits](https://red.anthropic.com/2025/smart-contracts/)

Copy/pasting: *Researchers from MATS and Anthropic Fellows pitted AI agents from models like Claude Opus 4.5, Claude Sonnet 4.5, and GPT-5 in a simulation against real smart contract exploits that occurred between 2020 and 2025. The results were worrisome, as the agents collectively syphoned $4.6 million in record time. The researchers then turned the agents on recently-deployed contracts with no known vulnerabilities, and two novel zero-days were discovered. Per the report: "This demonstrates as a proof-of-concept that profitable, real-world autonomous exploitation is technically feasible, a finding that underscores the need for proactive adoption of AI for defense."*

I am surely not technical enough to understand the details of the article I linked above, but after reading/skimming through it, the takeaway I got was that autonomous security capability is a coin with two sides: the same AI agents used to fortify smart contracts can just as easily dismantle and exploit them.

These AI agents managed to collectively siphon $4.6 million by autonomously replicating historical smart contract exploits. More alarmingly, when tested against live, recently deployed contracts, they discovered (2) zero-day vulnerabilities, proving that profitable, real-world autonomous exploitation is now a technical reality.

However, this power can also be used to gain a critical defensive advantage. By simulating attacks in record time and at low costs developers of smart contracts can proactively use these AI agents to identify and patch flaws before they even deploy their code into the wild..

Do any of you know if the biggest audit companies in Crypto actually use AI agents to examine code?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eviljordan saw something showing just how ahead of the pack Ethereum is</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qkixk3/daily_general_discussion_january_23_2026/o1axtv6/)

Saw something just now that is the epitome of the _Ethereum versus Everyone Else_ narrative, and why this ecosystem has no peer and Ethereum stands alone.

[This tweet from Justin Drake](https://x.com/drakefjustin/status/2014791629408784816), discussing the EF's work on Post Quantum and how long they've been working on it and all the progress they've made.

vs.

[This grift from a company that raised $200m to do... who knows what on BTC and SOL](https://www.theblock.co/post/385583/project-eleven-series-a-funding-crypto-quantum-threats)

One is a research group, making practical advances and demonstrable progress. The other is a blatant VC-grift that produces nothing of use and seeks to "partner" with other blockchains. The grift's one existing product, "Yellowpages" is literally just a secondary ledger that says, "this BTC address holds this much BTC," and is "quantum proof." It's not onchain. It's just an external database, not connected to anything with no requirement by anyone to be honored or used. That's not Post-Quantum, that's just a scam.

Ethereum is SO FAR AHEAD of everyone else, it's laughable. AND YET.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/FillTheDots was surprised to find that the Gnosis Safe app can't generate new keys</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qlf2ht/daily_general_discussion_january_24_2026/o1flwtl/)

My post got auto-removed for some reason, so I'll cross-post here.

**Safe Mobile (formerly Gnosis Safe) no longer generates keys on-device, only imports seed phrases**

I am setting up a safe multisig with multiple phones belonging to different people as signers.  
With the former Safe Wallet app it was relatively easy to do, but I see now that since transitioning to the Safe GmbH entity, Safe Wallet is being replaced by the new Safe Mobile app which doesn't allow generating keys anymore. **It is only possible to import existing ones by manually typing a seed phrase.**

I have been, to put it mildly, extremely surprised that securely generating a key on device is not possible anymore. Is one really supposed to generate new keys elsewhere, then import them into the device through their seed phrase? Doesn't this go against all technical and UX security principles?

I genuinely though I must have installed a fake app which is phishing me, but their support team confirmed that it's actually how it works. I think this is a huge step backwards, and Safe is the last one among wallet providers which I would expect something like this from.  
  
I wonder which other options I have now for a secure and simple multisig setup, any advice?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Dr_Lambo_McMoontard just started home staking with DappNode and u/haurog gives some advice around what clients to run</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qmaztv/daily_general_discussion_january_25_2026/o1m0z6z/)

[u/Dr_Lambo_McMoontard](https://reddit.com/u/Dr_Lambo_McMoontard):

Hey, folks -    

I am finally staking in 2026 via Dappnode. When choosing which execution and consensus client to use, is there any particular reason to choose one over another beyond maintaining client diversity (which rules out Lighthouse for consensus and Geth and Nethermind for execution)?    

[This page](https://www.quicknode.com/guides/ethereum-development/getting-started/ethereum-clients-explained) gives a nice breakdown of the key features of each but a lot of those aren't relevant to me. I don't care about sync time or enterprise-grade support, for example (but maybe I should?). I'll be running a full node from home so security and stability is important but it's mostly something I plan to run in the background. Auto-pruning might be nice but I have an 8 TB NVMe so that's more of a problem for future me.    

Whatever helps contribute to the health of the network - I'm all for it.    

Specs:    

- ASUS NUC U7 S14    
- 64 GB DDR5 RAM    
- 8 TB NVMe

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qmaztv/daily_general_discussion_january_25_2026/o1mw8ek/)

[u/haurog](https://reddit.com/u/haurog):

I personally make sure to use minority clients, not because I think my validators have any influence over the whole network, but rather because running a minority client gives me more choice if a majority client does have a consensus breaking bug which forks of into their own chain. If I run a minority client I can always switch to the faulty majority chain, but the other way around is not always possible. 

It also depends a bit how you want to use your node. If you need a reliable RPC node as well for running a rollup node or dapps, then geth is very often the first choice. If you mostly use it as a validator and only connect your wallets to it, then Nethermind, geth and Besu are similar. I personally would go with Besu because it is a minority client. Reth and Erigon are great for archive nodes, but are overall slightly slower than the other 3, this is especially true for Erigon. Erigon also has the 'minimal node' settings which just uses 400GB or so on your disk. Other clients (Nethermind and Besu) also started to have this feature though. But to be fair, your 8 TB disk is more than enough for all the clients in their full node configuration. There is also a newer execution client called Ethrex which is already running very stable, but is probably not yet available on dappnode.

For Consensus clients, Lighthouse still is all around a great client. It is not the most resource efficient one, but it runs very reliable. Unfortunately, it also is one of the most used ones nowadays that is why I do not use it anymore as a Consensus client, but it needs to be said, that reliability of the client distribution data is hotly discussed. I personally use Lodestar, which is a bit slow after a restart, but it works perfectly for me. Nimbus is the most resource efficient one, but at least in the first few weeks I would monitor it a bit more closely as on some hardware and some client combinations I still have some hiccups with it. But if there are no issues on your setup it is one of the best consensus clients there is. I recently also started using Grandine which just runs great and it seems a bit more resource efficient than Lighthouse. Teku uses the most resources overall, and Prysm has been a solid choice for many people as well. So for the consensus the differences aren't that big. 

Overall, the differences are not that big at least in my opinion, so choose whatever works best for you. I would suggest that you also setup the VPN for dappnode so you can access and debug it from anywhere. Also an email subscription through beaconcha.in is free and invaluable to get notified whenever your node is offline.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/MinimalGravitas is asking for community input on their Optimism governance delegate duties</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qn7wd5/daily_general_discussion_january_26_2026/o1wdb7r/)

This is a question to the group, especially anyone who delegates to me in Optimism's Token House.

There is a current [proposal](https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/87361578787676343742924242917671200086664358805816521220096877302391945572241) to take 50% of the revenue from the Superchain (i.e. Optimism mainnet, Base, Ink, Unichain, etc), which is collected in ETH, and use it to buy-back OP tokens, using an OTC provider.

In my opinion this is not a good proposal for a few reasons and so I am currently planning to vote No, however as I (rather pompously) feel like I am representing people here/EthFinance (I can't think who else would have delegated to me) I wanted to give an opportunity for other opinions, and I am very willing to be convinced otherwise if I am thinking about this incorrectly. My reasons are as follows:

* The relatively small amount of OP that this represents (a few hundred thousand dollars worth per month) should not need to be bought OTC - the superchain participants should utilize the onchain ecosystem that has been built upon them;

* Also related to using OTC sales, this reduces transparency, which is already not great in Optimism/Superchain governance;

* And finally, ETH has been a more stable asset than OP, therefore selling ETH to buy back and hold OP reduces the resilience of the treasury.


The votes for the proposal are currently - For: 9.813M, Abstain: 2.489M, Against: 1.463M. My voting power is only 0.158M and so is not going to swing the vote or anything, but I still thought it was worth raising here before I commit, probably this time tomorrow. Any thoughts or disagreement let me know before then.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog goes over the history of the ever-evolving prevailing narrative around Bitcoin</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qn7wd5/daily_general_discussion_january_26_2026/o1uayir/)

I guess it tells you that for many marginal buyers and sellers cryptos are largely speculative assets. It does not mean that this is true for all holders of Bitcoin and Ether though.

The dominant narrative for the various crypto assets has been changed so often it is hard to keep track. More specifically for Bitcoin the narrative changed at least 10 times or so. Each time one of the narratives did not work out it died out and got replaced by a different one. So, many people have been wondering themselves 'what now', every time a Bitcoin narrative did not pan out. The narratives came and went and left some imprints in the history, but they never really fully survived for more than a few years. 

Here are some interesting narratives from the last 15 years of Bitcoin. The 'anonymous darknet currency' narrative was an important intermediate step, especially for all the darkweb places selling drugs and stuff, but nowadays it is pretty clear that it is hard to remain anonymous on public ledgers. Even worse for Bitcoin is that it seems to be impossible to create a non-centralized privacy protocol on top of it. Bitcoin the 'payments network' carried the network for many years, but it died in 2017 when it became clear that scaling is not a goal for the bitcoin network. A slightly later narrative, the 'programmable shared database' never really picked up steam and died out shortly after with the advent of smart contract blockchains. The 'uncorrelated financial asset' narrative came and went without much impact. There was a short deviation towards the 'reserve currency for crypto' narrative for Bitcoin. Some bitcoiners argued that wrapped Bitcoin on Ethereum were proof of the central function Bitcoin will have in the future of finance. Well, due to the limited programmability of the bitcoin network it is pretty much impossible to bridge Bitcoins to other networks without centralized entities which is why not many people want to use Bitcoin for that. The next two narratives are different type of store of value narratives: The 'inflation hedge' died in 2022 when as soon as we had a bit of inflation Bitcoin tanked like there is no tomorrow. Same now with the digital gold narrative. Even though the narrative has been around for a long time, Bitcoin just isn't digital gold for most of the marginal buyers. We will see if there is a shift again for the store of value narrative for Bitcoin now that digital gold seems to be dying. Because store of value and speculative asset are pretty much the only narratives left for Bitcoin. To be fair though, I guess most retail gold buyers are not the ones which want to store their value for decades using gold and they definitely do not do so in a non-custodial manner. They just hop on the next 'up' train and will leave it as soon as there is a dump or longer a longer crab. Not many people remain true believers if their precious metal does nothing for 10 years. 

For me personally. Ethereum is a great store of value and there are so many opportunities in the ecosystem to degen a bit and earn an outsized reward even during crabby times. But it is obvious that not everyone sees it the same way as I do.

Here is a classical blog post by Hasu and Nic Carter looking at the different Bitcoin narratives. The authors themselves say that the chart is rather a vibe coded chart, but it should roughly follow some of the narratives:

<https://medium .com/@nic__carter/visions-of-bitcoin-4b7b7cbcd24c>

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Heringsalat100 asks what the deal is with MegaETH's TPS stats and u/growthepie_eth delivers in the replies</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qo5o60/daily_general_discussion_january_27_2026/o1zv9j3/)

[u/Heringsalat100](https://reddit.com/u/Heringsalat100):

Could someone explain the MegaETH TPS [on l2beats](https://l2beat.com/scaling/activity)? They are greyed out and for days it says that there has been no activity data for some time. However, the TPS is changing on a daily basis so there are changing TPS but no activity data for the last day? This does not make any sense.

If it is real TPS then it would be an absolute banger. It is currently sitting at 15k TPS!

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qo5o60/daily_general_discussion_january_27_2026/o20iklo/)

[u/growthepie_eth](https://reddit.com/u/growthepie_eth):

We (growthepie) are also tracking it [https://www.growthepie.com/chains/megaeth](https://www.growthepie.com/chains/megaeth)  
As I write this its currently sitting at 21,000 TPS but its worth noting that MegaETH is not fully launched yet, still in frontier, allowing devs to onboard with only limited access for the public. Currently, the MegaETH team are conducting a "global stress test" so a lot of these transactions are being automated to test their infra.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/HauntedJockStrap88's thesis has played out, but considering that and current prices, they are dumbfounded</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qp37r8/daily_general_discussion_january_28_2026/o28kkmm/)

In crypto BTC is king, for now. My thesis of “smart contracts on Bitcoin” failing has played out. My theses of the security budget problems and quantum risk problems coming to the fore appear to be playing out nicely. Ratio doesn’t fucking move, in fact has moved down substantially since I developed conviction on these ideas. 

ETH as a SoV asset. BTC needing to add tail emissions at some point still seems to be playing out. The Merge and EIP1559 happened and solidified ETH’s monetary policy. Continued high inflation of the USD, and continued debt problems have played out. ETH can’t cross its inflation-adjusted ATH in the past 4+ years. BTC does. Gold and Silver rip. 

As far as Smart Contract L1 chains go, ETH is positioned to maintain its dominance over its competitors. Decentralization, first mover advantage, modular architecture are the themes as to why. Hard to say it hasn’t. ETH metrics have continued to be dominant. Stable coins live on ETH. Coinbase and Robinhood are going to have L2s. Tradfi institutions are launching stable coins and market funds on ETH. ETH is primed to be a winner of Tokenization which is being talked about across the financial world. 

Blockchain emerges as an accepted technology in traditional finance, and will upgrade financial infrastructure in a real way. See above. 

Native yield on ETH will be attractive to Wall Street. Pension funds, treasuries, etc. will want to own it in the same ways they were attracted to BTC. Feel pretty good about this one too. We even got our own Saylor this year. 

Price doesn’t move. Ratio is depressing. Incredibly frustrating. It’d be one thing if I could point out where my thesis has gone wrong but I can’t. I feel like I’ve been right and haven’t been rewarded for it. Hell we are really going to be able to ZK-ify the L1 which is more bullish than I could’ve predicted in the past. The Trump Admin seems to only be accelerating crypto adoption and dollar destabilization. The United States Federal Government has gone from actively opposed to crypto to being crypto friendly. 

If you told me I’d get this checklist of events 4 years ago I’d be dumbfounded when you told me the price. I AM dumbfounded. If you wanted to tell me that ETH was *severely* overpriced at the 2021 cycle top, sure maybe that makes sense in a vacuum. But not if you’re going to also tell me BTC is trading at 90K after a 30% sell off.

I’m still believing because I haven’t seen anything to make me think I’m wrong. As frustrating as this has been for many in the chat I’m still believing that this will be looked at later as a great opportunity.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/rhythm_of_eth covers baby steps from the ECB</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qp37r8/daily_general_discussion_january_28_2026/o27ktwp/)

Good news for the Ethereum thesis?

<https://www.ecb.europa.eu/press/pr/date/2026/html/ecb.pr260127_1~a946167ce1.en.html>

European Central Bank Will accept tokenized assets as collateral from March 2026, starting first only with those issued by authorized CSDs on their own blockchain networks... But they're exploring expanding this to assets issued natively on any network

This institutionally validates real-world asset tokenization in Europe... one of Ethereum key metrics.

If the ECB eventually accepts native blockchain assets as collateral, Ethereum is well-positioned as the most used network for institutional RWA... 

This doesnt mean anything yet though. The announcement is blockchain agnostic and Europe still needs to address either or both points:

- Allow Euroclear or Clearstream (akin to DTCC in US) to bridge to public blockchains and retains CSD status 
- Recognize public blockchains as a mean of settlement 

Still unlikely, but this is not a bad direction to be moving towards I guess

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haochizzle reviews the imKey Pro hardware wallet</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qp37r8/daily_general_discussion_january_28_2026/o27rmiu/)

I just finished my first hardware wallet review video for the imKey Pro! 

I spent weeks reviewing the device… a bluetooth-native hardware wallet from the 2019 era that most people have never heard of. While its security chip is built like a digital bunker and trusted by passport issuers and bank cards alike… it can’t be denied that it can be considered previous gen tech, built on closed source firmware, and other red flags you’d expect me to tear apart. 

But the one thing that made my eyes go 👀… someone at the Ethereum Foundation told me some years ago that she exclusively uses it. Not Ledger. Not Trezor. The imKey.

That’s the sort of endorsement that builds trust where it matters most.

Does the mobile-first design actually matter? Is bluetooth worth the security tradeoff? Can a $110 wallet from 2019 compete in 2026? 

I aim to answer these questions in my channel-first full review video here: [https://youtu.be/FV2qJ3eLXFI](https://youtu.be/FV2qJ3eLXFI)

Would love to hear what r/ethereum thinks ☺️

</details>
