---
layout: markdown
date: 2026-01-16
episode: 135
guest: Mahesh Murthy
guest_topic: "[Karma](https://www.karmahq.xyz/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/ozZmrTfD8U
podcast_link: 
poap_link: 
---


<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qe818u/comment/nzvguqi/)

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef)

> ✨E✨t✨h✨e✨r✨e✨u✨m✨

[u/nothingnotnever](https://reddit.com/u/nothingnotnever)

> ✨$✨3✨3✨0✨8✨

[u/zepoid](https://reddit.com/u/zepoid)

> ✨.0✨3✨4✨5✨6✨


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qdbmtv/comment/nztvj62/)

*Political views,*

*Territory to peruse,*

*Crypto disabuse.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/ComprehensiveCap1413</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbjlpk/comment/nzftjhz/)

In the midst of"it's so over", I found there was, within me, an invincible "we're so back".

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/CoCleric compares staking rewards to dividends kicking off a spirited discussion</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q73z24/comment/nyf8iwx/)

So let’s fast forward here for a second. Once all the ETFs are staking then the rewards will be around 2%. I would think of this as a dividend from a traditional finance point of view. Which I believe would be really good compared to other companies dividends.

Apple: 0.4%

NVIDA: 0.02%

Microsoft: 0.75%

Tesla doesn’t even have one

Meta: 0.32%

So here’s hoping that yield looks yummy to everyone and ETH starts to get gobbled up.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Childsp takes a long look at ETH fundamentals</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q8wbyo/comment/nytdrh3/)

Just dug through some recent developments on this lazy Saturday and honestly, the fundamental case for Ethereum right now feels stronger than it has in a while...

**Institutional Onboarding is Finally Happening** 🏦

We’re moving past the pure retail speculation phase. 2025 was a huge turning point for institutional adoption, with Digital Asset Treasuries (DATs) moving faster than ETFs to deploy capital. The CEO of ether.fi thinks [2026 is the year neobanks really take off](https://share.google/RJnG0Zv50I1rj5xiY), exposing normal users to on-chain yield and stablecoins. This is huge for utility.

**Stablecoin Dominance is Unmatched** 💸

Ethereum is crushing it here. The network holds over 62% of the total stablecoin market share, recently surpassing $59 billion in issuance. B2B stablecoin payments grew steadily all last year, and with RWAs (Real World Assets) expanding despite the market downturn, ETH is becoming the default settlement layer for dollar transactions. [Standard Chartered](https://www.theblock.co/post/366734/standard-chartered-analysts-raise-ethereum-year-end-price-target) noted that Ethereum accounts for roughly 40% of all blockchain fees for a reason.

**The 2026 Roadmap is Locked In** (Glamsterdam & Hegota) ⚙️

Core devs have confirmed the plan for this year with two major scaling upgrades: Glamsterdam in the first half of the year and Hegota in the 2nd. These are the successors to Pectra and are designed to handle traffic better without spiking gas fees. Frequent, structured technical upgrades = strong network health.

**Developer Growth & Big Money Deploying** 👨‍💻

Despite the noise, Ethereum is still where the builders are. We added over 16k new developers between Jan and Sept 2025, beating out Solana and Bitcoin. On the corporate side, SharpLink Gaming just deployed $170M worth of ETH (55k ETH) to Linea. That’s serious institutional confidence.

**Price Targets are Looking Up** 📈

After a rough 2025 (-10%), January is starting green. CoinCodex is eyeing a 12% jump to \~$3,450 soon, but some forecasts are calling for 4,200–4,500 by the end of the month if liquidity improves. More bullish voices like Tom Lee are even projecting a range between $7,000 and $9,000 by early 2026. *(Obviously we need to take this with a huge grain of salt but still it's good to see bullish sentiment still exists!)*

Also... a little teaser to look out for ERC-8004. It's early days but looks like a winner.

Feels like we are building a rock-solid floor here. DYOR, but the fundamentals look solid.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Watch_Dominion_Now consideres Ethereum through the lens of Psychology of Money</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1q9rmoy/comment/nz14p9e/)

I was reading 'the Psychology of Money' on the plane a few days ago, and one interesting thought was about how the author believes that bubbles form. People have different investment timelines. Some invest for a time span of decades, others invest because they want to turn a profit in one week. One actor is not more rational than the other, they just have their own perspective and preference. 

Bubbles form when the pool of investors in a certain asset becomes weighted more towards short-term investors chasing momentum (and being perfectly rational in doing so) than towards long-term investors who bought the asset because they believe in it and want to see it grow. When the market turns, those short-term investors will drop the asset on a dime, as they never really had a strong belief in it. 

I think what's happening in ETH is a bit of the opposite. After years of bullying, pain, inexplicable price action, OGs dropping out, we are building an investor base that is absolutely rock solid. Granite. If you're still here, you must really believe in this thing. I believe that treasury companies are only the most obvious and public manifestation of an underlying reality, which is that the ETH investor base is more and more made up of actors who believe in the long-term success of the asset, and who will hold through thick and thin. 

And the momentum investors, retail, etc. Well, they'll come back at some point. There will be some catalyst. And once that catalyst is there, there will be a very thick, strong base that is not selling any time soon. 

In other news: about 5 years after I first started, and another year or so since I quit, I have recently joined the entry queue to become a (solo) staker once again :) I wanted resource-efficient minority clients, and am running Reth-Nimbus. Can't wait to be live!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard discusses the huge frustration which is the completely tainted reputation of crypto</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qan48g/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2026/nz8qq3e/)

I recently watched [this talk](https://media.ccc.de/v/39c3-a-post-american-enshittification-resistant-internet) by Cory Doctorow. He's an EFF activist and has been fighting for our rights for like 20 something years.

So much of this talk is on sovereignty. Whether it's national sovereignty such as national defense, corporate sovereignty such as jailbreaking devices, or personal sovereignty such as right to repair electronics he comes across as passionate about creating more resilient, economical, and equitable societal outcomes. So much of the ethos of web3 is present in his philosophy but the only reference to cryptocurrency in the whole talk was "stocks, shitcoins, and casinos but I repeat myself".

There were points where I just wanted to scream at the screen that we can help with that. By virtues, this guy should be ally of ours but he's probably only ever been exposed to the scammers that swarm the periphery of our ecosystem which is all too common a situation. We seriously needed something like Etherealize 4 years sooner, to treat public perception of Ethereum as more of a public good and less as the full time job of people like Sassal or Hoffman.

I'm talking to DeAI founders regularly and the common message is to lean into words like control, ownership, and resilience more and to avoid the word blockchain entirely. It's really a sad state of affairs that we can utilize blockchain solutions to improve things like resilience but we can't openly talk about utilizing blockchain solutions in any business or customer interaction. Anything web3 has to be abstracted as much as possible away behind a web2 interface before it can become palatable. 

Neobanks this year will be offering Defi access through web2 frontends while avoiding any mention of blockchain as hard as they can. They'll use terms like "fully regulatory compliant backend financial systems" because if you say Ethereum almost the best thing that will happen is people won't have heard of it. DeAI systems will be using terms like "proof of control" to market even when that proof is using mechanisms like tokenization for model ownership.

It's frustrating.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/edmundedgar covers the introduction of capital controls for some in the USA</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qan48g/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2026/nz8ngf2/)

US doing capital controls for welfare recipients

> Bessent: "For individuals who want to wire money out of the country, they're gonna have to tick a box whether they are or are not on public assistance. Then we're going to start pushing over the coming days and weeks that if you're on public assistance, you cannot wire money out of the country."

<https://bsky.app/profile/atrupar.com/post/3mcasw4irok2x>

Not totally clear what "public assistance" means but Claude says SNAP is 41.7 million people. If it also includes Medicaid that's another 67 million (partly overlapping with the snap recipients).

That's quite a lot of people who may suddenly need crypto, I wonder if there's anything we should be doing to help them find out how to do it and how to avoid getting scammed.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/abcoathup welcomes the latest mod to the r/Ethereum mod team</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qan48g/daily_general_discussion_january_12_2026/nz9zma8/)

Please welcome our newest mod u/eviljordan 

I've known him for years (online, never met in person).  

He created the Fulu artwork for Teku.  🦓

We recently created EIP 8066: Upgrade Mascots (https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-8066) and he is the self selected Mascot Wrestler for Glamsterdam upgrade. 🦩

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog explains how we ended up increasing L1 throughput over the last couple of years</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbjlpk/daily_general_discussion_january_13_2026/nzdae6w/)

Gas limit for blocks doubled within a year and more to come. In 2024 some Ethereum community members and researchers started to demand more L1 scaling by increasing the gas limit. A whole movement started around it (pumpthegas.org). Their argument was that there wasn't any explicit increase in many years and the implicit one during the merge was rather small (+7% or so?). Hardware has become better, internet bandwidth increased and most importantly some clients have become much more efficient. Ethereum gas target increases are voted on by validators, so it is a rather cumbersome and slow process. Core devs also first had to come to consensus what increase is safe to do at which points in time. Some benchmarking has been done in spring of 2025 which continues for the foreseeable future and some critical bottlenecks have been removed. Within one Year we increase the gas ~~target~~ limit from 30 million to 36 Million on February 4th 2025 then to 45 Million on July 22nd 2025 until it was increased to 60 million on November 26th 2025.

Blocks still are full (actually half full), so all the available block space is used, but because there is more now, price dropped massively. The increased block space on rollups further reduced bidding wars on mainnet. 

In the future there still is the goal to increase the gas limit by a factor of maybe 2 to 3 per year for a few years until we reach something around 20 billion gas per block (or equivalent) in a zk future. We will see how long it takes to get there.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Tiny-Height1967 and u/jtnichol share Vitalik's collection of posts here on Reddit</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbjlpk/daily_general_discussion_january_13_2026/nzbhx8i/)

A flurry of posts by Vitalik on the Ethereum front page for those of us who have a sticky directly into the daily:

[Welcome to 2026](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbiyab/welcome_to_2026/)

[Ethereum itself must pass the walkaway test](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbj1wd/ethereum_itself_must_pass_the_walkaway_test/)

[On Zk-EVMs](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbiyl2/on_zkevms/)

[We need better decentralized stablecoins](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbj1jg/we_need_better_decentralized_stablecoins/)

[Increasing bandwidth is safer than reducing latency](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbj03e/increasing_bandwidth_is_safer_than_reducing/)

[Linux as a north star](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbiz8k/linux_as_a_north_star/)

[Ethereum was not created to make finance efficient or apps convenient. It was created to set people free](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbiyvv/ethereum_was_not_created_to_make_finance/)

[Corposlop vs sovereign](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qbj11w/corposlop_vs_sovereign/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/nikola_j shares the latest DeFi Saver update</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qcfinw/daily_general_discussion_january_14_2026/nzmtfmf/)

I haven't posted anything interesting in a while, but we have had the biggest news at DeFi Saver in a long time just go live today.

We've partnered with Summer․fi who will be winding down their Pro management app in order to fully focus on the Lazy Summer protocol and its AI powered, yield hunting vaults.

If there's any Summer Pro users here, you can access and manage your positions at DeFi Saver as of today - and you can keep me as a contact for any questions whatsoever.

For anyone interested in checking out the full announcements, here they are from both sides:

* [https://x.com/DeFiSaver/status/2011477022636458483](https://x.com/DeFiSaver/status/2011477022636458483)
* [https://x.com/summerfinance\_/status/2011474734433669616](https://x.com/summerfinance_/status/2011474734433669616)

</details>
