---
layout: markdown
date: 2026-02-13
episode: 140
guest: 
guest_topic: ""
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/ArAceZHqM6
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CRu8Load60A
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r3hd2w/comment/o54avpx/)

[u/howareyou_2_day](https://reddit.com/u/howareyou_2_day)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $1,928.45

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.02918


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r1pegs/comment/o4w6lih/)

*More wallet safeguards,*

*Security house of cards,*

*Glamsterdam regards.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ethereal News: u/abcoathup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r3hd2w/comment/o55mhes/)

**Ethereal news weekly #11**

* BlackRock BUIDL tradeable via UniswapX 
* ENS staying on mainnet 
* Solidity developer survey

[https://ethereal.news/ethereal-news-weekly-11/](https://ethereal.news/ethereal-news-weekly-11/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/MulberryAcceptable39</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qzwdwq/comment/o4pzgq0/)

Let me guess….buy the dip?!

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog compares the current throughput of different L2s</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qwdcjh/daily_general_discussion_february_05_2026/o3qq4kc/)

Due to the whole L2 discussions after Vitaliks post I looked a bit closer at the L2beat website, more specifically, the activity charts.

I was positively surprised to see the level of activity all the different L2s have. Their current UOPS (user operations per second) numbers, which is relatively close to their TPS numbers, averaged over a whole day is the following:

- Lighter: 3060 UOPS
- Base: 144 UOPS 
- Arbitrum: 66 UOPS 
- World Chain: 29 UOPS
- OP Mainnet: 26 UOPS 
- Fuel Ignition: 24 UOPS 
- MegaETH: 22 UOPS
- Soneium: 22 UOPS
- Celo: 20 UOPS
- Unichain: 16 UOPS

As a comparison, Ethereum mainnet did 29 UOPS yesterday. This means quite a few L2s have now a sizeable number of transactions on them. Just a year ago, Ethereum mainnet did around 15 UOPS, which is similar to what unichain did yesterday. Some of the increased activity is definitely due to the ETH price going down which forces people to position themselves better and arbitragers to arbitrage the prices. This is very true for Arbitrum, and a bit as well for Base and Unichain. They have an increased activity in the last 2 weeks. For all the other L2s I do not see a strong increase in the last 2 weeks, but a rather slow and steady growth over a long time. Not sure if some activity for Unichain can be explained by yield farmerin though. MegaETH has, as far as I know, still not fully launched yet, so I guess the UOPS numbers for MegaETH are not really organic. MegaETH recently did a Speed test and as far as I have seen they easily managed to do 20k TPS for several days with short spikes way above these numbers. So they have a lot of room to grow if the find demand for their blockspace.

What surprised me the most with these numbers is that it isn't just Base and Arbitrum now, even though they are still high up in the UOPS rankings, but chains I have never used, like World Chain, Fuel Ignition, Soneium and Celo seem to have a consistent and growing userbase. I am not really sure what people do on these L2s, but they seem to be doing something on there. A year ago, only Base, Arbitrum, Taiko (mostly incentivized farming), OP Mainnet and World Chain even had UOPS over 15. But now we have quite a few more. So, to me it looks like various L2s have been finding their niches in 2025 and are growing from there.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/wsb_degen_number9999 digs up a theory about the 10/10 crash and this week while u/alexiskef finds more details from the source.</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qx9o40/daily_general_discussion_february_06_2026/o3yr5jm/)

[u/wsb_degen_number9999](https://reddit.com/u/wsb_degen_number9999):

It seems like Tom is insinuating that the recent -40% crash is due to the unwind of silver blowing up.

One of his replies includes a tweet, which is guessing with some circumstantial evidence that some hedge fund from HK got blown up by silver trading and had to liquidate IBIT holdings. So that crashed BTC and along with ETH.

Thoughts?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qx9o40/daily_general_discussion_february_06_2026/o3zlpep/)

[u/alexiskef](https://reddit.com/u/alexiskef):

I just saw this too! I'll copy paste [some info](https://x.com/i/status/2019861697654137064) below, and I'll also include a link with more detailed info. (personally, all this is way over my head, I don't understand most of it. However, just like I was saying yesterday in a comment, this whole crash does not FEEL like a pure crypto crash to me.. It feels like something else broke, and this could be it..)

"was sent a pretty in-depth report on what's driving the crypto unwind. the short version: a large non-crypto entity likely based in HK was running JPY carry trade funding into leveraged IBIT options + Binance positions + precious metals. Oct 10 blew a hole in the balance sheet ($19.16B in crypto liquidations, largest single day ever). prime broker granted \~90 days. entity doubled down on PM recovery trade. Warsh nomination destroyed it (gold −11%, silver −31%). now underwater on all legs. Feb 5 was the forced unwind. IBIT did $10.7B volume, $900M in options premium, both all-time records. 13F filings drop Feb 14. we'll know who it was soon."

And [here is the way more detailed explanation.. ](https://x.com/i/status/2019587226871447687)

edit 1: [If 10/10 was the shot, 2/5 was the funeral.](https://x.com/i/status/2019835623767724298)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/haurog goes over the Nimbus bug</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qz13nm/daily_general_discussion_february_08_2026/o4895d5/)

Tonight, one of the consensus clients called Nimbus had a bug and lost sync to the head of the chain. Consensus breaking bugs occur quite often. The last big one was a Prysm bug 2 months ago. Todays Nimbus incident meant, that everyone using Nimbus could not attest anymore and the node runners lost some income. But for the network it wasn't really a big issue. Thanks to client diversity, the network did not really struggle in any meaningful way. What is more interesting though is that such an incident can give us insights in how many people use a certain client. Before the incident, attestation participation was at around 99.8% after the incident, the attestation participation dropped to 94.5% within 4 epochs (\~25 minutes). Or in other words, it looks like that around 5% of all validators are exclusively using nimbus as the consensus client. This fits very well with the numbers on clientdiversity.org, which has nimbus usage at 4.58%. It is great to see that these estimations on clientdiversity.org are pretty accurate as they are used in discussions about client diversity.

The source of the Nimbus bug are still unknown, but I am sure we will hear about it in the coming days. Fixing the issue is also quite simple, just restart your client. The aftermath of the incident was pretty harmless. Within 3 hours participation was back over 99% and now, 9 hours after the incident, participation is still slowly increasing as more and more node operators restart their clients.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/spection updates us on their Lens app development</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qzwdwq/daily_general_discussion_february_09_2026/o4e54ob/)

Hi again

I added some more features to my Lens app. There's a group messaging tab now - you can message anyone with a wallet address, Eth ENS, Lens profile, or Web3Bio.   
  
They will need to Start a new group and send a message to themselves once (this will initialize their mailbox).  I don't see a simple way to get push notifications, but the usual reactions / replies / pinning / attachments will work. There's some extra features which allow token transfers, contract calls, spam filters, LLM integration, and token gating. 

I think the group messaging should be stable for now; you'll notice the rest of the site is still under construction! Feel free to contribute to the chaos [2-op.vercel.app](http://2-op.vercel.app)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 makes the case for a more moderate bear market</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qzwdwq/daily_general_discussion_february_09_2026/o4fzgdy/)

Maybe this is copium, but it might still be an interesting thought: 

The **2018** top was caused by two things

- the general crypto hype (mainly driven by BTC but obviously with huge spillover effects into a lot of alts)
- the ICO craze that further increased demand and "locked" a lot of ETH in ICO treasuries

The **2021** top was caused by a crazy macro environment which of course was the result of covid 

I think it's not a crazy thesis to say that both tops were too crazy and crypto shouldn't have gone up that much based on fundamentals. 2018 ended in a blow off top. 2021 started with a crypto mania and ended with a double top which was still a little higher than the local top in Q2. The corresponding bears with 90%/80% draw downs make this more likely imo. 

This cycle is the first one, where liquidity and special effects did not have a crazy (positive) influence on crypto's performance. Or in other words: this might be the first top based on fundamentals. 

Yes, we had events like 10/10 that likely changed cryptos path, but not as much as ICOs or macro in 2021. 

What if 5k is the first "fair" top since genesis? In the end this would mean that the bear this cycle should also be more moderate (something a lot of people are expecting and have said, so nothing really new here) and maybe maybe the lows are in after 60% down, which would be a huge improvements compared to the cycles before hand. 

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Kevkillerke shares a good post on the upcoming RocketPool upgrade</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r0svsd/daily_general_discussion_february_10_2026/o4mn7i4/)

Very informative article on Medium about the upcomming Rocket Pool upgrade. 

The oDAO proposal for Saturn one is already live. Voting starts in a week, and hopefully the upgrade will be life shortly after!

[https://medium.com/rocket-pool/all-about-saturn-one-42ca035a746d](https://medium.com/rocket-pool/all-about-saturn-one-42ca035a746d)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eth2353 shares a key consideration for anyone looking to tax-optimise their staking rewards</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r0svsd/daily_general_discussion_february_10_2026/o4mus45/)

I'm not an accountant or tax advisor. I have been maintaining ethstaker.tax for years so consider myself to have a pretty decent understanding.

With staking you have two choices when it comes to taxing the staking rewards. You either pay:

- capital gains tax on the increase of your non-rebasing liquid staking token (rETH, wstETH, osETH, ...)
- income tax on regularly distributed staking rewards ("native" solo staking, StakeWise Vaults, stETH, ...)

I don't know how well Koinly handles each of those, though I do know you can export daily rewards as a CSV from the StakeWise UI.

Which of those options is more tax efficient depends on your country's tax code.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/KotMyNetchup asks where the community went and gets a great answer from u/Yeopaa and u/Bob-Rossi</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r1pegs/daily_general_discussion_february_11_2026/o4txylk/)

[u/KotMyNetchup](https://reddit.com/u/KotMyNetchup):

I've been here a long time, through many ups and it feels like more downs. The most noticeable difference now is the lack of community. We always had a big thriving community before, even during the downturns. I have to admit I myself stepped away from crypto Reddit over the years because focusing on price action all the time was too stressful and bad for my mental health. Maybe that's just what others have done, I don't know. But I do have to ask: Where did the community go? It was always my safety net knowing there were so many people excited about how Ethereum could change the world and working on so many cool ideas. Did that dry up, or did the activity just move somewhere else?

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r1pegs/daily_general_discussion_february_11_2026/o4tzs7f/)

[u/Yeopaa](https://reddit.com/u/Yeopaa):

We lost a lot of users in protest after Reddit announced their API changes. We also lost a lot to crypto twitter. Many still hang out in the EVMavericks discord. But for the most part the API protest was the real community fracture.

As for people being excited about eths potential or being bullish, ever since we merged here we've had months upon months upon months of bearish trolls posting together and downvoting anything positive. Its only recently begun to let up a bit, seems the same handful of people have become more quiet but the current price action is bringing out a new type of negativity: fear and regret.

I think a lot of old posters are still here, just lurking.

---

[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1r1pegs/daily_general_discussion_february_11_2026/o4uyyn2/)

[u/Bob-Rossi](https://reddit.com/u/Bob-Rossi):

I’m “here” today, but usually am not. So here’s 1 data point for you.

I just left and didn’t go anywhere else. I know a lot went to Twitter and Discord and whatever, but I never bothered. Like you there is an element of self preservation… I have a life to live and an anxiety-riddled brain to protect. And if it’s any attestation to once this community has been, I genuinely felt like shit reading about all the hacks and failed goals and terrible trades people I “knew” were going though. It feels like some crypto subreddit version of “the kids aren’t alright” song and it’s depressing to see. 

The spark is gone due to numerous other factors. Price doesn’t help, but the ratio cuts even worse. Everything that made me excited tech wise years ago either hasn’t happened (or not to any meaningful scale) or happened and not much has taken its place. And the amount of grifting is starting to give me “were we the baddies all along?” vibes. 

And frankly, I’m just older. Perspectives change and in some ways I got bored. Why stick around when 2/3rds of the familiar faces are gone. It’s like some nursing home energy - sitting around with old friends wondering whose gonna die next

</details>
