---
layout: markdown
date: 2026-02-06
episode: 139
guest: Jack Dishman
guest_topic: "[Clanker](https://www.clanker.world/)"
weekly_link: https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/s/XkQl2uhCBj
podcast_link: https://www.youtube.com/live/EtiRbHaIKWg
poap_link: 
---

<details markdown=1>
<summary>The morning roundup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qx9o40/comment/o3uutrq/)

[u/remche](https://reddit.com/u/remche)

> Ethereum

[u/FrenktheTank](https://reddit.com/u/FrenktheTank)

> $1,936.82

[u/TimbukNine](https://reddit.com/u/TimbukNine)

> 0.02923


</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Weekly Haiku: u/Jey_s_TeArS</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qtn0fr/comment/o3a2yu0/)

*Everything is fine,*

*Two months until you shine,*

*Staking waiting line.*

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Ethereal News: u/abcoathup</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qx9o40/comment/o3w8aep/)

**Ethereal news weekly #10**  

* Vitalik: role of L2s has changed
* Hegotá upgrade headliner proposals
* Lido v3 live  

[https://ethereal.news/ethereal-news-weekly-10/](https://ethereal.news/ethereal-news-weekly-10/)

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>Shitpost of the week: u/originalbaconslab</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qwdcjh/comment/o3ti8us/)

It is a near certainty that the future will not be built on EOS.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/LogrisTheBard reminds us what our mission still is here</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qqxc92/daily_general_discussion_january_30_2026/o2mx9ic/)

1. Making global payments faster, cheaper, and more accessible to billions of people in less developed countries.
2. Helping people escape hyper-inflation in countries that have horribly mismanaged their currencies.
3. Revolutionizing tradfi systems for 24/7 settlement and removing intermediaries to improve trust and reduce cost.
4. Expanding capital formation for any and all projects to the entire world.
5. Making a basis for a global digital id system and reputation systems that create new revenue opportunities for everyone.
6. Revolutionizing the scientific community by enabling self-publishing and coop style journals.
7. Fighting climate change by bringing carbon credits on chain and available on the entire Defi suite of tools.
8. Funding a variety of public goods all the way from the municipality level to a global scale.
9. Making enterprise scale compute more accessible and cheaper.
10. Making systems for anyone to create their own AI agents to encapsulate their expertise and monetize.
11. Slaying Moloch.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eththrowaway86238 shares a collection of thoughts as a lurker here from 2017</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qrucxq/daily_general_discussion_january_31_2026/o2tu44n/)

Long time lurker (\~2017)... couple pent up thoughts, some more obvious than others...

*  There was never a 4 year cycle besides as a self-fulfilling prophecy.  Market goes up and down depending on sentiment/interest and roughly based on global central bank interest rates/natural disasters/etc.  You're watching TV static and imagining patterns with that one.
* Sentiment is a self-fulfilling prophecy.  Think everyone knows that already.   The price is a product both of organic demand based on the utility of the asset (on chain use) and the speculative aspect.  The speculative aspect I think is responsible for just about all of the volatility - every untrained retail investor constantly double-guessing themselves on which way it's going, and mostly going with the crowd.
* A time like this has basically never been a good time to sell.  There's always someone selling at the bottom then horrified when it rebounds.  Paper losses -> real losses.  
* If you do best fit linear regression (looking at log chart) over most intervals between x date and present, it's a positive correlation, besides the last 10 months. Zoom out and take a long look at the log chart since 2017 on TV.  It's way up over time, and the volatility has decreased.  There's about 9 years in the chart and barely two years of them are above this price. You take the linear regression since 2021, it's still up - yes it keeps hitting the same top, but the lows keep getting higher.  Isn't there a name for that?  Our last nasty low was \~1384 last spring, 2400 is a walk in the park. \~900 back in 2022 too. I think we're just all looking at the % down from 4950 and disappointed that the bull run cut out - but the bull run started at 1384.  
* The fundamentals basically haven't changed in any negative way since Trump's election, if anything there's been increased institutional adoption, and it seems like just a ton of bearish sentiment resulting from global economic stability and crypto in general being treated as a risk asset instead of a safe haven.  Which always struck me as the market treating the entire asset class irrationally - why would gold be a safe haven, but crypto not? Is the internet going to break any time soon?
* Crypto has a major perception problem with the public based on the many scams and the association with Musk/Trump - in general it's now seen as a right-aligned tech.  While everyone here knows there's no economic ideology fundamentally tied to crypto besides wanting something immutable and consensus-based. That kind of perception risk has got to be the biggest risk to the sector - what happens when/if the pendulum swings and the Genslers get back in?  Do they have public support to crack down, or no?  What's the counter-narrative?  What's being built that actually counteracts cronyism, scams, rug pulls, etc.?
* The amount we're tied to BTC price (with just a multiplier for the volatility basically) really shows how little understanding of the fundamentals the average money in ETH has.  Which indicates very little sound projection is actually even priced in.  Especially when you consider the leaking ratio, which is just detached from reality.  Pessimistic as people are after the last few years of grind, that historically signals opportunity, doesn't it?

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/NoTimeForInfinity takes satisfaction in watching the bankers get angry</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qtn0fr/daily_general_discussion_february_02_2026/o34mctq/)

Almost there- From liberal rag... The Wall Street Journal:


**The Crypto CEO Who’s Become Enemy No. 1 on Wall Street**

> Brian Armstrong, CEO of the biggest U.S. crypto company, was having coffee with former U.K. prime minister Tony Blair at the World Economic Forum in Davos last week when JPMorgan Chase’s Jamie Dimon cut in. 
“You are full of s—,” said Dimon, a longtime crypto skeptic who previously called bitcoin a fraud, his index finger pointed squarely at Armstrong’s face. 
> 
> As crypto moves swiftly into the mainstream of American finance, some of Wall Street’s heavyweights are waking up to the threat. While banks have embraced some aspects of crypto—helping people invest in bitcoin and using digital assets to make money transfers more efficient—they are drawing a line at encroachment on their core business: consumer deposits
> 
> Citigroup’s Jane Fraser gave Armstrong less than a minute of her time.
> 
> One minute was more than Wells Fargo CEO Charlie Scharf offered. When Armstrong sought him out, Scharf told him there was nothing for them to talk about.

<https://www.wsj.com/finance/currencies/coinbase-ceo-brian-armstrong-wall-street-a7895786>

<https://archive.ph/ktZkM>

You mad bro?

I would never accuse our noble, patriotic, American bankers of being so petty as to use price manipulation as a negotiating tactic, but their anger feeds me just the same.

We've been through a lot. I've seen a lot of people lose their homes, their retirements. I've seen people lose hope. I've seen suicides the quick kind, and the long slow kind where people turn to drugs. 

What I've never seen is angry bankers. Never. 

It makes me all warm inside like the sun breaking the clouds after a long...lean winter- because that's what it's been. Some of us didn't make it. A lot of retired people went back to work and died humiliated as Walmart greeters. 

Maybe I'm a vengeful shallow man taking joy in the misfortune of others, or *maybe* the warmth I feel when these guys squirm is righteous and hard fought. Maybe it's hope.

2025:

- David Solomon $47 million 
- Jamie Dimon $43 million 
- Charlie Scharf 28% bump to $40 million
- Brian Moynahan $35 million
- Jane Fraser $34.5 million

I'm hopeful. Not because I bought a lottery ticket because towns, cities and regular people are better off when they can keep what they work for. When parents can sleep at night with permissionless certainty that the future of their children will be there in the morning because it doesn't rely on these people.

The dollar and the banking system- *that's* the lottery ticket. It's a merry go round that's making me sick. I shouldn't need anyone's permission to get off. 

Mr banker you can keep your paper 'my$tery value coupons' and your grand empty buildings built to inspire trust. They don't. We aren't looking for marble, brass, Corinthian columns, Roman porticos or a bigger vault. We just want to be left alone in a world to build markets where we don't need permission.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/vbuterin shares a must-read post about L2s</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1quv8if/on_l2s_and_ethereum/)

There have recently been some discussions on the ongoing role of L2s in the Ethereum ecosystem, especially in the face of two facts:

* L2s' progress to stage 2 (and, secondarily, on interop) has been far slower and more difficult than originally expected
* L1 itself is scaling, fees are very low, and gaslimits are projected to increase greatly in 2026

Both of these facts, for their own separate reasons, mean that the original vision of L2s and their role in Ethereum no longer makes sense, and we need a new path.

First, let us recap the original vision. Ethereum needs to scale. The definition of "Ethereum scaling" is the existence of large quantities of block space that is backed by the full faith and credit of Ethereum - that is, block space where, if you do things (including with ETH) inside that block space, your activities are guaranteed to be valid, uncensored, unreverted, untouched, as long as Ethereum itself functions. If you create a 10000 TPS EVM where its connection to L1 is mediated by a multisig bridge, then you are not scaling Ethereum.

This vision no longer makes sense. L1 does not need L2s to be "branded shards", because L1 is itself scaling. And L2s are not able or willing to satisfy the properties that a true "branded shard" would require. I've even seen at least one explicitly saying that they may never want to go beyond stage 1, not just for technical reasons around ZK-EVM safety, but also because their customers' regulatory needs require them to have ultimate control. This may be doing the right thing for your customers. But it should be obvious that if you are doing this, then you are not "scaling Ethereum" in the sense meant by the rollup-centric roadmap. But that's fine! it's fine because Ethereum itself is now scaling directly on L1, with large planned increases to its gas limit this year and the years ahead.

We should stop thinking about L2s as literally being "branded shards" of Ethereum, with the social status and responsibilities that this entails. Instead, we can think of L2s as being a full spectrum, which includes both chains backed by the full faith and credit of Ethereum with various unique properties (eg. not just EVM), as well as a whole array of options at different levels of connection to Ethereum, that each person (or bot) is free to care about or not care about depending on their needs.

What would I do today if I were an L2?

* Identify a value add other than "scaling". Examples: (i) non-EVM specialized features/VMs around privacy, (ii) efficiency specialized around a particular application, (iii) truly extreme levels of scaling that even a greatly expanded L1 will not do, (iv) a totally different design for non-financial applications, eg. social, identity, AI, (v) ultra-low-latency and other sequencing properties, (vi) maybe built-in oracles or decentralized dispute resolution or other "non-computationally-verifiable" features
* Be stage 1 at the minimum (otherwise you really are just a separate L1 with a bridge, and you should just call yourself that) if you're doing things with ETH or other ethereum-issued assets
* Support maximum interoperability with Ethereum, though this will differ for each one (eg. what if you're not EVM, or even not financial?)

From Ethereum's side, over the past few months I've become more convinced of the value of the native rollup precompile, particuarly once we have enshrined ZK-EVM proofs that we need anyway to scale L1. This is a precompile that verifies a ZK-EVM proof, and it's "part of Ethereum", so (i) it auto-upgrades along with Ethereum, and (ii) if the precompile has a bug, Ethereum will hard-fork to fix the bug.

The native rollup precompile would make full, security-council-free, EVM verification accessible. We should spend much more time working out how to design it in such a way that if your L2 is "EVM plus other stuff", then the native rollup precompile would verify the EVM, and you only have to bring your own prover for the "other stuff" (eg. Stylus). This might involve a canonical way of exposing a lookup table between contract call inputs and outputs, and letting you provide your own values to the lookup table (that you would prove separately).

This would make it easy to have safe, strong, trustless interoperability with Ethereum. It also enables synchronous composability (see: <https://ethresear.ch/t/combining-preconfirmations-with-based-rollups-for-synchronous-composability/23863> and <https://ethresear.ch/t/synchronous-composability-between-rollups-via-realtime-proving/23998>). And from there, it's each L2's choice exactly what they want to build. Don't just "extend L1", figure out something new to add.

This of course means that some will add things that are trust-dependent, or backdoored, or otherwise insecure; this is unavoidable in a permissionless ecosystem where developers have freedom. Our job should make to make it clear to users what guarantees they have, and to build up the strongest Ethereum that we can.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/benido2030 clarifies Vitalik's tweet about L2s</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1quk1p6/daily_general_discussion_february_03_2026/o3eaud5/)

I think Vitaliks twitter post is misunderstood. 

E.g. RSA saying that „L2s aren’t Ethereum“ ([link to the tweet](https://x.com/ryansadams/status/2018728683591156010))

When you read especially quote tweets it seems like L2s went from white to black by just this one tweet. I don’t think that is the case. 

Those L2s willing to go the extra mile and go to stage 2 will still be Ethereum. They are scaling Ethereum and they are Ethereum. 

Yes, we were hoping to see more stage2 rollups earlier. We were hoping especially for better interoperability (which is imo a key feature). But there still will be L2s that will go that way. 

Thesis: now that L2s are dead, L2s will live. We will see more Stage 2 L2s with hopefully a great interoperability and that will put the pressure on stage 1 L2s to make a tough decision on how to proceed because from a feature / UX point of view their positioning sucks. 

Mainnet scales, but we will still need L2s cause no single chain can fit all transactions. That won’t change. So there will be some general purpose L2s and a lot of appchains both scaling Ethereum and being Ethereum

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/Cats_Pyjamaz explains why they bought ETH</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1quk1p6/daily_general_discussion_february_03_2026/o3b9knz/)

Some thoughts from a newcomer.

Was I happy having bought just before we dropped? No. But it has made me reflect on why I did buy ETH in the first place, and it really comes down to how cool the technology is. 

I love that it is allostatic in how it balances itself, with ETH being used up in transactions and added through staking. I find this to be a far more elegant way to create deflation and scarcity as compared to fixed supply. 

I love that it is decentralized not just in design but also in development, with a bunch of dedicated people working on it, occasionally knocking heads. Although slower, I know that these types of processes often arrive at solutions (sometimes superior ones) which streamlined processes do not. 

I love that the network is actually used for things, not merely lying there as a lump pretending to be a “store of value”. 

I was going to buy some bitcoin, not because I am a true believer but because I dislike banks. Even though it is currently underperforming I am glad I found Ethereum instead, because frankly I find it to be that much more cool. 

Cool does not necessarily translate to successful. I have no clue whether Ethereum will eventually take off. But regardless I do really like Ethereum. It is more a bet made with heart than head in my case, I think. Thus I don’t regret making it, although it would obviously have been more fun to start buying now compared to a few weeks ago… I would have more ETH then.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/eviljordan points out an inconsistency and sets the records straight regarding debanking</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qvglhu/daily_general_discussion_february_04_2026/o3o30ke/)

tl;dr: De-banking is very real, but the claims that Republicans are being de-banked is ridiculous and the omission of Adult in this article is obscene.

I have a _very_ inside track to this issue, but there's only so much I can say out of respect for not being an expert.

First of all, Lumis is not a reliable narrator. Not that that matters much because, ultimately, [_Fairness in Banking_](https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/senate-bill/401) is _mostly_ a good thing. Second, [Lumis is retiring](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/12/19/cynthia-lummis-crypto-retirement-00700961), and, my guess is she's trying to salvage her non-political life in the public eye so she doesn't get lynched once she's out of office.

ANYWAY.

What's **really** interesting in this article is that they mention every category of de-banking EXCEPT^1 Adult, which is _by far_ the largest group of de-banked... users in the country. The [Free Speech Coalition](https://www.freespeechcoalition.com) is the first line of defense regarding de-banking and challenging 1st Amendment rights for the Adult industry **and everyone else**. Other than the [EFF](https://www.eff.org/), I can't think of another organization working harder on behalf of the American people to right Government overreach.

If you actually care about de-banking, I encourage you to peruse [the FSC's resources on banking discrimination](https://www.freespeechcoalition.com/banking-discrimination) and recognize Adult is ***always*** the canary in the coal mine, and it's just a hop, skip, and a jump to de-bank YOU.

Edit: Happy cakeday, /u/jtnichol!

^1 Adult falls under the mentioned umbrella of "any legal business".

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/spection shares a Lens based project they've been working on which has NFT token gating features for EVMs</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qvglhu/daily_general_discussion_february_04_2026/o3hs611/)

Hi all I've been working on a Lens app and I wanted to invite EVM first. Aside from the typical Lens social media apps, there is a focus on groups/channels - silos where you can gate membership and organize projects. Messages from each group get funneled to the main page for the world to discover (this can be turned off).   
  
The monetization is transparent - if you want more reach, add a Stake to your post to be higher in the feed. You will get your stake back, along with tips / boosts from other users. However, if you are ratio'ed by a comment, they will steal part of your stake/rewards. This should incentivize us to bury low-effort spam.   
  
For now the currency is the Aave stable coin GHOST; (on testnet there is a custom token I can send you to play with - likely the mainnet direction as well to reward users). Please record some of your thoughts / ideas / criticism as you use the site! It should be completely free to use, let me know if you even have gas costs.  
  
[https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/2018208031201190294](https://x.com/VitalikButerin/status/2018208031201190294) I'm going to be posting to twitter later this week since Vitalik is bringing some attention to this area, but wanted to give first look to this group that got me into this field.   
  
For mainnet: [https://2-op.vercel.app/](https://2-op.vercel.app/)   
testnet: [https://2nd-orcin-six.vercel.app/](https://2nd-orcin-six.vercel.app/)   
  
Feel free to start a group for EVM and set up the metadata; let me know if you want it to be open or I can build out the NFT / token requirements.

</details>
<details markdown=1>
<summary>u/South_Friendship_644 starts a discussion about if Ethereum network usage drives ETH price and gets a lot of good responses</summary>
[View on Reddit →](https://reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/1qvglhu/daily_general_discussion_february_04_2026/o3lbpse/)

Does the price of ETH rise, the more people use it?

This might sound like a stupid question, but it is something that I can't get my head around. 

There seems to be this common belief that in the (obviously inevitable) case Ethereum will one day explode into the world and gain momentum as THE new defi, smart contract, dapp, financial infrastructure and so on (sorry, I really don't know that much about the depths of Ethereums usability but I am very much intrigued by it), more and more people and institutions will use the blockchain for mentioned and other usecases.

Everybody seems to believe that this will inevitably lead to an explosion in the price of ETH. But please, someone educate me: the underlying token is not really involved into all of the use cases of the Blockchain, right? You need some ETH for the gas fees, that I understand. But those fees keep getting lower and lower. So why would the price rise? Out of popularity? Does more usage need more ETH to be staked for security,, leading to scarcity? How does demand rise if you don't really need the token?

The vague answer GPT gives me doesn't reay enlighten me that much, so please ELI5 someone, I am eager to learn (and obviously wanna know that my stack of ETH will inevitably get more valuable).

</details>
